1	bayesian	2000	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Individual differences in reasoning: Implications for the rationality debate?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Much research in the last two decades has demonstrated that human responses deviate from the performance deemed normative according to various models of decision making and rational judgment (e.g., the basic axioms of utility theory). This gap between the normative and the descriptive can be interpreted as indicating systematic irrationalities in human cognition. However, four alternative interpretations preserve the assumption that human behavior and cognition is largely, rational. These posit that the gap is due to (1) performance errors, (2) computational limitations, (3) the wrong norm being applied by the experimenter, and (4) a different construal of the task by the subject. In the debates about the liability of these alternative explanations, attention has been focused too narrowly, on the modal response. In a series of experiments involving most of the classic tasks in the heuristics and biases literature, we have examined the implications of individual differences in performance for each of the four explanations of the normative/descriptive gap. Performance errors are a minor factor in the gap; computational limitations underlie non-normative responding on several tasks, particularly those that involve some type of cognitive decontextualization. Unexpected patterns of covariance can suggest when the wrong norm is being applied to a task or when an alternative construal of the task should be considered appropriate.
2	bayesian	2006	Poldrack, RA	Can cognitive processes be inferred from neuroimaging data?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is much interest currently in using functional neuroimaging techniques to understand better the nature of cognition. One particular practice that has become common is 'reverse inference', by which the engagement of a particular cognitive process is inferred from the activation of a particular brain region. Such inferences are not deductively valid, but can still provide some information. Using a Bayesian analysis of the BrainMap neuroimaging database, I characterize the amount of additional evidence in favor of the engagement of a cognitive process that can be offered by a reverse inference. Its usefulness is particularly limited by the selectivity of activation in the region of interest. I argue that cognitive neuroscientists should be circumspect in the use of reverse inference, particularly when selectivity of the region in question cannot be established or is known to be weak.
3	bayesian	2001	Tenebaum, JB; Griffiths, TL	Generalization, similarity, and Bayesian inference	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Shepard has argued that a universal law should govern generalization across different domains of perception and cognition, as well as across organisms from different species or even different planets. Starting with some basic assumptions about natural kinds, he derived an exponential decay function as the form of the universal generalization gradient, which accords strikingly well with a wide range of empirical data. However, his original formulation applied only to the ideal case of generalization from a single encountered stimulus to a single novel stimulus, and for stimuli that can be represented as points in a continuous metric psychological space. Here we recast Shepard's theory in a more general Bayesian framework and show how this naturally extends his approach to the more realistic situation of generalizing from multiple consequential stimuli with arbitrary representational structure. Our framework also subsumes a version of Tversky's set-theoretic model of similarity, which is conventionally thought of as the primary alternative to Shepard's continuous metric space model of similarity and generalization. This unification allows us not only to draw deep parallels between the set-theoretic and spatial approaches, but also to significantly advance the explanatory power of set-theoretic models.
4	bayesian	1997	Myung, IJ; Pitt, MA	Applying Occam's razor in modeling cognition: A Bayesian approach	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In mathematical modeling of cognition, it is important to have well;justified criteria for choosing among differing explanations (i.e,, models) of observed data. This paper introduces a Bayesian model selection approach that formalizes Occam's razor, choosing the simplest model that describes the data well. The choice of a model is carried out by taking into account not only the traditional model selection criteria (i.e., a model's fit to the data and the number of parameters) but also the extension of the parameter space, and, most importantly, the functional form of the model (i.e., the way in which the parameters are combined in the model's equation). An advantage of the approach is that it can be applied to the comparison of non-nested models as well as nested ones. Application examples are presented and implications of the results for evaluating models of cognition are discussed.
5	bayesian	1991	ANDERSON, JR	IS HUMAN COGNITION ADAPTIVE	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Can the output of human cognition be predicted from the assumption that it is an optimal response to the information-processing demands of the environment?  A methodology called rational analysis is described for deriving predictions about cognitive phenomena using optimization assumptions.  The predictions flow from the statistical structure of the environment and not the assumed structure of the mind.  Bayesian inference is used, assuming that people start with a weak prior model of the world which they integrate with experience to develop stronger models of specific aspects of the world.  Cognitive performance maximizes the difference between the expected gain and cost of mental effort.  (1) Memory performance can be predicted on the assumption that retrieval seeks a maximal trade-off between the probability of finding the relevant memories and the effort required to do so; in (2) categorization performance there is a similar trade-off between accuracy in predicting object features and the cost of hypothesis formation; in (3) causal inference the trade-off is between accuracy in predicting future events and the cost of hypothesis formation; and in (4) problem solving it is between the probability of achieving goals and the cost of both external and mental problem-solving search.  The implemention of these rational prescriptions in neurally plausible architecture is also discussed.
6	bayesian	2010	Griffiths, TL; Chater, N; Kemp, C; Perfors, A; Tenenbaum, JB	Probabilistic models of cognition: exploring representations and inductive biases	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive science aims to reverse-engineer the mind, and many of the engineering challenges the mind faces involve induction. The probabilistic approach to modeling cognition begins by identifying ideal solutions to these inductive problems. Mental processes are then modeled using algorithms for approximating these solutions, and neural processes are viewed as mechanisms for implementing these algorithms, with the result being a top-down analysis of cognition starting with the function of cognitive processes. Typical connectionist models, by contrast, follow a bottom-up approach, beginning with a characterization of neural mechanisms and exploring what macro-level functional phenomena might emerge. We argue that the top-down approach yields greater flexibility for exploring the representations and inductive biases that underlie human cognition.
7	bayesian	2005	Rouder, JN; Lu, J	An introduction to Bayesian hierarchical models with an application in the theory of signal detection	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Although many nonlinear models of cognition have been proposed in the past 50 years, there has been little consideration of corresponding statistical techniques for their analysis. In analyses with nonlinear models, unmodeled variability from the selection of items or participants may lead to asymptotically biased estimation. This asymptotic bias, in turn, renders inference problematic. We show, for example, that a signal detection analysis of recognition memory data leads to asymptotic underestimation of sensitivity. To eliminate asymptotic bias, we advocate hierarchical models in which participant variability, item variability, and measurement error are modeled simultaneously. By accounting for multiple sources of variability, hierarchical models yield consistent and accurate estimates of participant and item effects in recognition memory. This article is written in tutorial format; we provide an introduction to Bayesian statistics, hierarchical modeling, and Markov chain Monte Carlo computational techniques.
8	bayesian	2008	Uleman, JS; Saribay, SA; Gonzalez, CM	Spontaneous inferences, implicit impressions, and implicit theories	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	People make social inferences without intentions awareness or effort, i.e., spontaneously. We review recent findings on spontaneous social inferences (especially traits, goals, and causes) and closely related phenomena. We then describe current thinking on some of the most relevant processes, implicit knowledge, and theories. These include automatic and controlled processes and their interplay; embodied cognition, including mimicry; and associative versus rule-based processes. Implicit knowledge includes adult folk theories, conditions of personhood, self-knowledge to simulate others, and cultural and social class differences. Implicit theories concern Bayesian networks, recent attribution research, and questions about the utility of the disposition-situation dichotomy. Developmental research provides new insights. Spontaneous social inferences include a growing array of phenomena, but they have been insufficiently linked to other phenomena and theories. We hope the links suggested in this review begin to remedy this.
9	bayesian	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Bayesian Fundamentalism or Enlightenment? On the explanatory status and theoretical contributions of Bayesian models of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The prominence of Bayesian modeling of cognition has increased recently largely because of mathematical advances in specifying and deriving predictions from complex probabilistic models. Much of this research aims to demonstrate that cognitive behavior can be explained from rational principles alone, without recourse to psychological or neurological processes and representations. We note commonalities between this rational approach and other movements in psychology - namely, Behaviorism and evolutionary psychology - that set aside mechanistic explanations or make use of optimality assumptions. Through these comparisons, we identify a number of challenges that limit the rational program's potential contribution to psychological theory. Specifically, rational Bayesian models are significantly unconstrained, both because they are uninformed by a wide range of process-level data and because their assumptions about the environment are generally not grounded in empirical measurement. The psychological implications of most Bayesian models are also unclear. Bayesian inference itself is conceptually trivial, but strong assumptions are often embedded in the hypothesis sets and the approximation algorithms used to derive model predictions, without a clear delineation between psychological commitments and implementational details. Comparing multiple Bayesian models of the same task is rare, as is the realization that many Bayesian models recapitulate existing (mechanistic level) theories. Despite the expressive power of current Bayesian models, we argue they must be developed in conjunction with mechanistic considerations to offer substantive explanations of cognition. We lay out several means for such an integration, which take into account the representations on which Bayesian inference operates, as well as the algorithms and heuristics that carry it out. We argue this unification will better facilitate lasting contributions to psychological theory, avoiding the pitfalls that have plagued previous theoretical movements.
10	bayesian	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Pinning down the theoretical commitments of Bayesian cognitive models	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mathematical developments in probabilistic inference have led to optimism over the prospects for Bayesian models of cognition. Our target article calls for better differentiation of these technical developments from theoretical contributions. It distinguishes between Bayesian Fundamentalism, which is theoretically limited because of its neglect of psychological mechanism, and Bayesian Enlightenment, which integrates rational and mechanistic considerations and is thus better positioned to advance psychological theory. The commentaries almost uniformly agree that mechanistic grounding is critical to the success of the Bayesian program. Some commentaries raise additional challenges, which we address here. Other commentaries claim that all Bayesian models are mechanistically grounded, while at the same time holding that they should be evaluated only on a computational level. We argue this contradictory stance makes it difficult to evaluate a model's scientific contribution, and that the psychological commitments of Bayesian models need to be made more explicit.
11	bayesian	2009	Baker, CL; Saxe, R; Tenenbaum, JB	Action understanding as inverse planning	COGNITION	Humans are adept at inferring the mental states underlying other agents' actions, such as goals, beliefs, desires, emotions and other thoughts. We propose a computational framework based on Bayesian inverse planning for modeling human action understanding. The framework represents an intuitive theory of intentional agents' behavior based on the principle of rationality: the expectation that agents will plan approximately rationally to achieve their goals, given their beliefs about the world. The mental states that caused an agent's behavior are inferred by inverting this model of rational planning using Bayesian inference, integrating the likelihood of the observed actions with the prior over mental states. This approach formalizes in precise probabilistic terms the essence of previous qualitative approaches to action understanding based on an "intentional stance" [Dennett, D. C. (1987). The intentional stance. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press] or a "teleological stance" [Gergely, G., Nadasdy, Z., Csibra, G., & Biro, S. (1995). Taking the intentional stance at 12 months of age. Cognition, 56,165-193]. In three psychophysical experiments using animated stimuli of agents moving in simple mazes, we assess how well different inverse planning models based on different goal priors can predict human goal inferences. The results provide quantitative evidence for an approximately rational inference mechanism in human goal inference within our simplified stimulus paradigm, and for the flexible nature of goal representations that human observers can adopt, We discuss the implications of our experimental results for human action understanding in real-world contexts, and suggest how Our framework might be extended to capture other kinds of mental state inferences. such as inferences about beliefs, or inferring whether an entity is an intentional agent. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
12	bayesian	2008	Griffiths, TL; Kemp, C; Tenenbaum, JB	Bayesian Models of Cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
13	bayesian	2007	Parmenter, BA; Weinstock-Guttman, B; Garg, N; Munschauer, F; Benedict, RHB	Screening for cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis using the Symbol Digit Modalities Test	MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS	Cognitive impairment is common in multiple sclerosis (MS), yet difficult to detect during routine neurologic examination. Therefore, brief screening tests that identify patients who may benefit from a more thorough assessment or treatment are needed. We investigated the utility of the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) as a screen for cognitive dysfunction because it can be administered and scored in about 5 minutes. One hundred MS patients and 50 healthy controls, matched on demographic variables, participated in the study. Examination procedures included the neuropsychological (NP) tests included in the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS (MACFIMS) battery. Patients were considered impaired if they performed one and a half standard deviations below controls on two or more MACFIMS variables, excluding the SDMT. Bayesian statistics showed that a total score of 55 or lower on the SDMT accurately categorized 72% of patients, yielding sensitivity of 0.82, specificity of 0.60, positive predictive value (PPV) of 0.71, and negative predictive value (NPV) of 0.73. These results suggest that the effectiveness of the SDMT as a screen for cognitive impairment in MS is roughly equal to that of other psychometric and questionnaire methods.
14	bayesian	2004	Krueger, JI; Funder, DC	Towards a balanced social psychology: Causes, consequences, and cures for the problem-seeking approach to social behavior and cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mainstream social psychology focuses on how people characteristically violate norms of action through social misbehaviors such as conformity with false majority judgments, destructive obedience, and failures to help those in need. Likewise, they are seen to violate norms of reasoning through cognitive errors such as misuse of social information, self-enhancement, and an over-readiness to attribute dispositional characteristics. The causes of this negative research emphasis include the apparent informativeness of norm violation, the status of good behavior and judgment as unconfirmable null hypotheses, and the allure of counter-intuitive findings. The shortcomings of this orientation include frequently erroneous imputations of error, findings of mutually contradictory errors, incoherent interpretations of error, an inability to explain the sources of behavioral or cognitive achievement, and the inhibition of generalized theory. Possible remedies include increased attention to the complete range of behavior and judgmental accomplishment, analytic reforms emphasizing effect sizes and Bayesian inference, and a theoretical paradigm able to account for both the sources of accomplishment and of error. A more balanced social psychology would yield not only a more positive view of human nature, but also an improved understanding of the bases of good behavior and accurate judgment, coherent explanations of occasional lapses, and theoretically grounded suggestions for improvement.
15	bayesian	2007	Kilner, JM; Friston, KJ; Frith, CD	The mirror-neuron system: a Baynesian perspective	NEUROREPORT	Is it possible to understand the intentions of other people by simply observing their movements? Many neuroscientists believe that this ability depends on the brain's mirror-neuron system, which provides a direct link between action and observation. Precisely how intentions can be inferred through movement-observation, however, has provoked much debate. One problem in inferring the cause of an observed action, is that the problem is ill-posed because identical movements can be made when performing different actions with different goals. Here we suggest that this problem is solved by the mirror-neuron system using predictive coding on the basis of a statistical approach known as empirical Bayesian inference. This means that the most likely cause of an observed movement can be inferred by minimizing the prediction error at all cortical levels that are engaged during movement observation. This account identifies a precise role for the mirror-neuron system in our ability to infer intentions from observed movement and outlines possible computational mechanisms.
16	bayesian	2011	Busemeyer, JR; Pothos, EM; Franco, R; Trueblood, JS	A Quantum Theoretical Explanation for Probability Judgment Errors	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A quantum probability model is introduced and used to explain human probability judgment errors including the conjunction and disjunction fallacies, averaging effects, unpacking effects, and order effects on inference. On the one hand, quantum theory is similar to other categorization and memory models of cognition in that it relies on vector spaces defined by features and similarities between vectors to determine probability judgments. On the other hand, quantum probability theory is a generalization of Bayesian probability theory because it is based on a set of (von Neumann) axioms that relax some of the classic (Kolmogorov) axioms. The quantum model is compared and contrasted with other competing explanations for these judgment errors, including the anchoring and adjustment model for probability judgments. In the quantum model, a new fundamental concept in cognition is advanced the compatibility versus incompatibility of questions and the effect this can have on the sequential order of judgments. We conclude that quantum information-processing principles provide a viable and promising new way to understand human judgment and reasoning.
17	bayesian	2013	Pouget, A; Beck, JM; Ma, WJ; Latham, PE	Probabilistic brains: knowns and unknowns	NATURE NEUROSCIENCE	There is strong behavioral and physiological evidence that the brain both represents probability distributions and performs probabilistic inference. Computational neuroscientists have started to shed light on how these probabilistic representations and computations might be implemented in neural circuits. One particularly appealing aspect of these theories is their generality: they can be used to model a wide range of tasks, from sensory processing to high-level cognition. To date, however, these theories have only been applied to very simple tasks. Here we discuss the challenges that will emerge as researchers start focusing their efforts on real-life computations, with a focus on probabilistic learning, structural learning and approximate inference.
18	bayesian	2010	Sanborn, AN; Griffiths, TL; Navarro, DJ	Rational Approximations to Rational Models: Alternative Algorithms for Category Learning	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Rational models of cognition typically consider the abstract computational problems posed by the environment, assuming that people are capable of optimally solving those problems. This differs from more traditional formal models of cognition, which focus on the psychological processes responsible for behavior. A basic challenge for rational models is thus explaining how optimal solutions can be approximated by psychological processes. We outline a general strategy for answering this question, namely to explore the psychological plausibility of approximation algorithms developed in computer science and statistics. In particular, we argue that Monte Carlo methods provide a source of rational process models that connect optimal solutions to psychological processes. We support this argument through a detailed example. applying this approach to Anderson's (1990, 1991) rational model of categorization (RMC), which involves a particularly challenging computational problem. Drawing on a connection between the RMC and ideas from nonparametric Bayesian statistics, we propose 2 alternative algorithms for approximate inference in this model. The algorithms we consider include Gibbs sampling. a procedure appropriate when all stimuli are presented simultaneously, and particle filters, which sequentially approximate the posterior distribution with a small number of samples that are updated as new data become available. Applying these algorithms to several existing datasets shows that a particle filter with a single particle provides a good description of human inferences.
19	bayesian	2012	Bavelier, D; Green, CS; Pouget, A; Schrater, P	Brain Plasticity Through the Life Span: Learning to Learn and Action Video Games	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 35	The ability of the human brain to learn is exceptional. Yet, learning is typically quite specific to the exact task used during training, a limiting factor for practical applications such as rehabilitation, workforce training, or education. The possibility of identifying training regimens that have a broad enough impact to transfer to a variety of tasks is thus highly appealing. This work reviews how complex training environments such as action video game play may actually foster brain plasticity and learning. This enhanced learning capacity, termed learning to learn, is considered in light of its computational requirements and putative neural mechanisms.
20	bayesian	2006	Yoshida, W; Ishii, S	Resolution of uncertainty in prefrontal cortex	NEURON	Making optimal decisions in the face of uncertain or incomplete information arises as a common problem in everyday behavior, but the neural processes underlying this ability remain poorly understood. A typical case is navigation, in which a subject has to search for a known goal from an unknown location. Navigating under uncertain conditions requires making decisions on the basis of the current belief about location and updating that belief based on incoming information. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging during a maze navigation task to study neural activity relating to the resolution of uncertainty as subjects make sequential decisions to reach a goal. We show that distinct regions of prefrontal cortex are engaged in specific computational functions that are well described by a Bayesian model of decision making. This permits efficient goal-oriented navigation and provides new insights into decision making by humans.
21	bayesian	2008	Shiffrin, R; Lee, M; Kim, W; Wagenmakers, EJ	A Survey of Model Evaluation Approaches With a Tutorial on Hierarchical Bayesian Methods	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article reviews current methods for evaluating models in the cognitive sciences, including theoretically based approaches, such as Bayes factors and minimum description length measures; simulation approaches, including model mimicry evaluations; and practical approaches, such as validation and generalization measures. This article argues that, although often useful in specific settings, most of these approaches are limited in their ability to give a general assessment of models. This article argues that hierarchical methods, generally, and hierarchical Bayesian methods, specifically, can provide a more thorough evaluation of models in the cognitive sciences. This article presents two worked examples of hierarchical Bayesian analyses to demonstrate how the approach addresses key questions of descriptive adequacy, parameter interference, prediction, and generalization in principled and coherent ways.
22	bayesian	2012	Bowers, JS; Davis, CJ	Bayesian Just-So Stories in Psychology and Neuroscience	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	According to Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience, minds and brains are (near) optimal in solving a wide range of tasks. We challenge this view and argue that more traditional, non-Bayesian approaches are more promising. We make 3 main arguments. First, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in psychology is weak. This weakness relates to the many arbitrary ways that priors, likelihoods, and utility functions can be altered in order to account for the data that are obtained, making the models unfalsifiable. It further relates to the fact that Bayesian theories are rarely better at predicting data compared with alternative (and simpler) non-Bayesian theories. Second, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in neuroscience is weaker still. There are impressive mathematical analyses showing how populations of neurons could compute in a Bayesian manner but little or no evidence that they do. Third, we challenge the general scientific approach that characterizes Bayesian theorizing in cognitive science. A common premise is that theories in psychology should largely be constrained by a rational analysis of what the mind ought to do. We question this claim and argue that many of the important constraints come from biological, evolutionary, and processing (algorithmic) considerations that have no adaptive relevance to the problem per se. In our view, these factors have contributed to the development of many Bayesian "just so" stories in psychology and neuroscience; that is, mathematical analyses of cognition that can be used to explain almost any behavior as optimal.
23	bayesian	2009	Said, CP; Sebe, N; Todorov, A	Structural Resemblance to Emotional Expressions Predicts Evaluation of Emotionally Neutral Faces	EMOTION	People make trait inferences based on facial appearance despite little evidence that these inferences accurately reflect personality. The authors tested the hypothesis that these inferences are driven in part by structural resemblance to emotional expressions. The authors first had participants judge emotionally neutral faces on a set of trait dimensions. The authors then submitted the face images to a Bayesian network classifier trained to detect emotional expressions. By using a classifier, the authors can show that neutral faces perceived to possess various personality traits contain objective resemblance to emotional expression. In general, neutral faces that are perceived to have positive valence resemble happiness, faces that are perceived to have negative valence resemble disgust and fear, and faces that are perceived to be threatening resemble anger. These results support the idea that trait inferences are in part the result of an overgeneralization of emotion recognition systems. Under this hypothesis, emotion recognition systems, which typically extract accurate information about a person's emotional state, are engaged during the perception of neutral faces that bear subtle resemblance to emotional expressions. These emotions could then be misattributed as traits.
24	bayesian	2010	Kruschke, JK	What to believe: Bayesian methods for data analysis	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Although Bayesian models of mind have attracted great interest from cognitive scientists, Bayesian methods for data analysis have not. This article reviews several advantages of Bayesian data analysis over traditional null-hypothesis significance testing. Bayesian methods provide tremendous flexibility for data analytic models and yield rich information about parameters that can be used cumulatively across progressive experiments. Because Bayesian statistical methods can be applied to any data, regardless of the type of cognitive model (Bayesian or otherwise) that motivated the data collection, Bayesian methods for data analysis will continue to be appropriate even if Bayesian models of mind lose their appeal.
25	bayesian	2009	Oaksford, M; Chater, N	Precis of Bayesian Rationality: The Probabilistic Approach to Human Reasoning	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to Aristotle, humans are the rational animal. The borderline between rationality and irrationality is fundamental to many aspects of human life including the law, mental health, and language interpretation. But what is it to be rational? One answer, deeply embedded in the Western intellectual tradition since ancient Greece, is that rationality concerns reasoning according to the rules of logic - the formal theory that specifies the inferential connections that hold with certainty between propositions. Piaget viewed logical reasoning as defining the end-point of cognitive development; and contemporary psychology of reasoning has focussed on comparing human reasoning against logical standards. Bayesian Rationality argues that rationality is defined instead by the ability to reason about uncertainty. Although people are typically poor at numerical reasoning about probability, human thought is sensitive to subtle patterns of qualitative Bayesian, probabilistic reasoning. In Chapters 1-4 of Bayesian Rationality (Oaksford & Chater 2007), the case is made that cognition in general, and human everyday reasoning in particular, is best viewed as solving probabilistic, rather than logical, inference problems. In Chapters 5-7 the psychology of "deductive" reasoning is tackled head-on: It is argued that purportedly "logical" reasoning problems, revealing apparently irrational behaviour, are better understood from a probabilistic point of view. Data from conditional reasoning, Wason's selection task, and syllogistic inference are captured by recasting these problems probabilistically. The probabilistic approach makes a variety of novel predictions which have been experimentally confirmed. The book considers the implications of this work, and the wider "probabilistic turn" in cognitive science and artificial intelligence, for understanding human rationality.
26	bayesian	2002	Hoffrage, U; Gigerenzer, G; Krauss, S; Martignon, L	Representation facilitates reasoning: what natural frequencies are and what they are not	COGNITION	A good representation can be crucial for finding the solution to a problem. Gigerenzer and Hoffrage (Psychol. Rev. 102 (1995) 684; Psychol. Rev. 106 (1999) 425) have shown that representations in terms of natural frequencies, rather than conditional probabilities, facilitate the computation of a cause's probability (or frequency) given an effect - a problem that is usually referred to as Bayesian reasoning. They also have shown that normalized frequencies - which are not natural frequencies - do not lead to computational facilitation, and consequently, do not enhance people's performance. Here, we correct two misconceptions propagated in recent work (Cognition 77 (2000) 197; Cognition 78 (2001) 247; Psychol. Rev. 106 (1999) 62; Organ. Behav. Hum. Decision Process. 82 (2000) 217): normalized frequencies have been mistaken for natural frequencies and, as a consequence, "nested sets" and the "subset principle" have been proposed as new explanations. These new terms, however, are nothing more than vague labels for the basic properties of natural frequencies. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
27	bayesian	2013	Pothos, EM; Busemeyer, JR	Can quantum probability provide a new direction for cognitive modeling?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Classical (Bayesian) probability (CP) theory has led to an influential research tradition for modeling cognitive processes. Cognitive scientists have been trained to work with CP principles for so long that it is hard even to imagine alternative ways to formalize probabilities. However, in physics, quantum probability (QP) theory has been the dominant probabilistic approach for nearly 100 years. Could QP theory provide us with any advantages in cognitive modeling as well? Note first that both CP and QP theory share the fundamental assumption that it is possible to model cognition on the basis of formal, probabilistic principles. But why consider a QP approach? The answers are that (1) there are many well-established empirical findings (e. g., from the influential Tversky, Kahneman research tradition) that are hard to reconcile with CP principles; and (2) these same findings have natural and straightforward explanations with quantum principles. In QP theory, probabilistic assessment is often strongly context-and order-dependent, individual states can be superposition states (that are impossible to associate with specific values), and composite systems can be entangled (they cannot be decomposed into their subsystems). All these characteristics appear perplexing from a classical perspective. However, our thesis is that they provide a more accurate and powerful account of certain cognitive processes. We first introduce QP theory and illustrate its application with psychological examples. We then review empirical findings that motivate the use of quantum theory in cognitive theory, but also discuss ways in which QP and CP theories converge. Finally, we consider the implications of a QP theory approach to cognition for human rationality.
28	bayesian	2009	Doll, BB; Jacobs, WJ; Sanfey, AG; Frank, MJ	Instructional control of reinforcement learning: A behavioral and neurocomputational investigation	BRAIN RESEARCH	Humans learn how to behave directly through environmental experience and indirectly through rules and instructions. Behavior analytic research has shown that instructions can control behavior, even when such behavior leads to sub-optimal outcomes (Hayes, S (Ed) 1989. Rule-governed behavior: cognition, contingencies, and instructional control. Plenum Press.). Here we examine the control of behavior through instructions in a reinforcement learning task known to depend on striatal dopaminergic function. Participants selected between probabilistically reinforced stimuli, and were (incorrectly) told that a specific stimulus had the highest (or lowest) reinforcement probability Despite experience to the contrary, instructions drove choice behavior. We present neural network simulations that capture the interactions between instruction-driven and reinforcement-driven behavior via two potential neural circuits one in which the striatum is inaccurately trained by instruction representations coming from prefrontal cortex/hippocampus (PFC/HC), and another in which the striatum learns the environmentally based reinforcement contingencies, but is "overridden" at decision output. Both models capture the core behavioral phenomena but, because they differ fundamentally on what is learned, make distinct predictions for subsequent behavioral and neuroimaging experiments. Finally, we attempt to distinguish between the proposed computational mechanisms governing instructed behavior by fitting a series of abstract "Q-learning" and Bayesian models to subject data. The best-fitting model supports one of the neural models, suggesting the existence of a "confirmation bias" in which the PFC/HC system trains the reinforcement system by amplifying outcomes that are consistent with instructions while diminishing inconsistent outcomes. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved
29	bayesian	2008	Norris, D; Kinoshita, S	Perception as evidence accumulation and Bayesian inference: Insights from masked priming	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The authors argue that perception is Bayesian inference based on accumulation of noisy evidence and that, in masked priming, the perceptual system is tricked into treating the prime and the target as a single object. Of the 2 algorithms considered for formalizing how the evidence sampled from a prime and target is combined, only 1 was shown to be consistent with the existing data from the visual word recognition literature. This algorithm was incorporated into the Bayesian Reader model (D. Norris, 2006), and its predictions were confirmed in 3 experiments. The experiments showed that the pattern of masked priming is not a fixed function of the relations between the prime and the target but can be changed radically by changing the task from lexical decision to a same-different judgment. Implications of the Bayesian framework of masked priming for unconscious cognition and visual masking are discussed.
30	bayesian	2001	Shepard, RN	Perceptual-cognitive universals as reflections of the world	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The universality, invariance, and elegance of principles governing the universe may be reflected in principles of the minds that have evolved in that universe - provided that the mental principles are formulated with respect to the abstract spaces appropriate for the representation of biologically significant objects and their properties. (1) Positions and motions of objects conserve their shapes in the geometrically fullest and simplest way when represented as points and connecting geodesic paths in the six-dimensional manifold jointly determined by the Euclidean group of three-dimensional space and the symmetry group of each object. (2) Colors of objects attain constancy when represented as points in a three-dimensional vector space in which each variation in natural illumination is canceled by application of its inverse from the three-dimensional linear group of terrestrial transformations of the invariant solar source. (3) Kinds of objects support optimal generalization and categorization when represented, in an evolutionarily-shaped space of possible objects, as connected regions with associated weights determined by Bayesian revision of maximum-entropy priors.
31	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD	How cognitive modeling can benefit from hierarchical Bayesian models	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Hierarchical Bayesian modeling provides a flexible and interpretable way of extending simple models of cognitive processes. To introduce this special issue, we discuss four of the most important potential hierarchical Bayesian contributions. The first involves the development of more complete theories, including accounting for variation coming from sources like individual differences in cognition. The second involves the capability to account for observed behavior in terms of the combination of multiple different cognitive processes. The third involves using a few key psychological variables to explain behavior on a wide range of cognitive tasks. The fourth involves the conceptual unification and integration of disparate cognitive models. For all of these potential contributions, we outline an appropriate general hierarchical Bayesian modeling structure. We also highlight current models that already use the hierarchical Bayesian approach, as well as identifying research areas that could benefit from its adoption. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
32	bayesian	2000	Evans, JSBT; Handley, SJ; Perham, N; Over, DE; Thompson, VA	Frequency versus probability formats in statistical word problems	COGNITION	Three experiments examined people's ability to incorporate base rate information when judging posterior probabilities, Specifically, we tested the (Cosmides, L., & Tooby, J. (1996), Are humans good intuitive statisticians after all? Rethinking some conclusions from the literature on judgement under uncertainty. Cognition, 58, 1-73) conclusion that people's reasoning appears to follow Bayesian principles when they are presented with information in a frequency format, but not when information is presented as one case probabilities. First, we found that frequency formats were not generally associated with better performance than probability formats unless they were presented in a manner which facilitated construction of a set inclusion mental model. Second, we demonstrated that the use of frequency information may promote biases in the weighting of information. When participants are asked to express their judgements in frequency rather than probability format, they were more likely to produce the base rate as their answer, ignoring diagnostic evidence. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
33	bayesian	2011	Perfors, A; Tenenbaum, JB; Regier, T	The learnability of abstract syntactic principles	COGNITION	Children acquiring language infer the correct form of syntactic constructions for which they appear to have little or no direct evidence, avoiding simple but incorrect generalizations that would be consistent with the data they receive. These generalizations must be guided by some inductive bias - some abstract knowledge - that leads them to prefer the correct hypotheses even in the absence of directly supporting evidence. What form do these inductive constraints take? It is often argued or assumed that they reflect innately specified knowledge of language. A classic example of such an argument moves from the phenomenon of auxiliary fronting in English interrogatives to the conclusion that children must innately know that syntactic rules are defined over hierarchical phrase structures rather than linear sequences of words (e.g., Chomsky, 1965, 1971, 1980; Crain & Nakayama, 1987). Here we use a Bayesian framework for grammar induction to address a version of this argument and show that, given typical child-directed speech and certain innate domain-general capacities, an ideal learner could recognize the hierarchical phrase structure of language without having this knowledge innately specified as part of the language faculty. We discuss the implications of this analysis for accounts of human language acquisition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
34	bayesian	2005	Lee, MD; Wagenmakers, EJ	Bayesian statistical inference in psychology: Comment on Trafimow (2003)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	D. Trafimow (2003) presented an analysis of null hypothesis significance testing (NHST) using Bayes's theorem. Among other points, he concluded that NHST is logically invalid, but that logically valid Bayesian analyses are often not possible. The latter conclusion reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of Bayesian inference. This view needs correction, because Bayesian methods have an important role to play in many psychological problems where standard techniques are inadequate. This comment, with the help of a simple example, explains the usefulness of Bayesian inference for psychology.
35	bayesian	2009	McClelland, JL	The Place of Modeling in Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I consider the role of cognitive modeling in cognitive science. Modeling, and the computers that enable it, are central to the field, but the role of modeling is often misunderstood. Models are not intended to capture fully the processes they attempt to elucidate. Rather, they are explorations of ideas about the nature of cognitive processes. In these explorations, simplification is essential-through simplification, the implications of the central ideas become more transparent. This is not to say that simplification has no downsides; it does, and these are discussed. I then consider several contemporary frameworks for cognitive modeling, stressing the idea that each framework is useful in its own particular ways. Increases in computer power (by a factor of about 4 million) since 1958 have enabled new modeling paradigms to emerge, but these also depend on new ways of thinking. Will new paradigms emerge again with the next 1,000-fold increase?
36	bayesian	2011	Holyoak, KJ; Cheng, PW	Causal Learning and Inference as a Rational Process: The New Synthesis	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY, VOL 62	Over the past decade, an active line of research within the field of human causal learning and inference has converged on a general representational framework: causal models integrated with Bayesian probabilistic inference. We describe this new synthesis, which views causal learning and inference as a fundamentally rational process, and review a sample of the empirical findings that support the causal framework over associative alternatives. Causal events, like all events in the distal world as opposed to our proximal perceptual input, are inherently unobservable. A central assumption of the causal approach is that humans (and potentially nonhuman animals) have been designed in such a way as to infer the most invariant causal relations for achieving their goals based on observed events. In contrast, the associative approach assumes that learners only acquire associations among important observed events, omitting the representation of the distal relations. By incorporating Bayesian inference over distributions of causal strength and causal structures, along with noisy-logical (i.e., causal) functions for integrating the influences of multiple causes on a single effect, human judgments about causal strength and structure can be predicted accurately for relatively simple causal structures. Dynamic models of learning based on the causal framework can explain patterns of acquisition observed with serial presentation of contingency data and are consistent with available neuroimaging data. The approach has been extended to a diverse range of inductive tasks, including category-based and analogical inferences.
37	bayesian	2008	Caduff, D; Timpf, S	On the assessment of landmark salience for human navigation	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	In this paper, we propose a conceptual framework for assessing the salience of landmarks for navigation. Landmark salience is derived as a result of the observer's point of view, both physical and cognitive, the surrounding environment, and the objects contained therein. This is in contrast to the currently held view that salience is an inherent property of some spatial feature. Salience, in our approach, is expressed as a three-valued Saliency Vector. The components that determine this vector are Perceptual Salience, which defines the exogenous ( or passive) potential of an object or region for acquisition of visual attention, Cognitive Salience, which is an endogenous ( or active) mode of orienting attention, triggered by informative cues providing advance information about the target location, and Contextual Salience, which is tightly coupled to modality and task to be performed. This separation between voluntary and involuntary direction of visual attention in dependence of the context allows defining a framework that accounts for the interaction between observer, environment, and landmark. We identify the low-level factors that contribute to each type of salience and suggest a probabilistic approach for their integration. Finally, we discuss the implications, consider restrictions, and explore the scope of the framework.
38	bayesian	2013	Friston, KJ; Schwartenbeck, P; FitzGerald, T; Moutoussis, M; Behrens, T; Dolan, RJ	The anatomy of choice: active inference and agency	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	This paper considers agency in the setting of embodied or active inference. In brief, we associate a sense of agency with prior beliefs about action and ask what sorts of beliefs underlie optimal behavior. In particular, we consider prior beliefs that action minimizes the KullbackLeibler (KL) divergence between desired states and attainable states in the future. This allows one to formulate bounded rationality as approximate Bayesian inference that optimizes a free energy bound on model evidence. We show that constructs like expected utility, exploration bonuses, softmax choice rules and optimism bias emerge as natural consequences of this formulation. Previous accounts of active inference have focused on predictive coding and Bayesian filtering schemes for minimizing free energy. Here, we consider variational Bayes as an alternative scheme that provides formal constraints on the computational anatomy of inference and actionconstraints that are remarkably consistent with neuroanatomy. Furthermore, this scheme contextualizes optimal decision theory and economic (utilitarian) formulations as pure inference problems. For example, expected utility theory emerges as a special case of free energy minimization, where the sensitivity or inverse temperature (of softmax functions and quantal response equilibria) has a unique and Bayes-optimal solutionthat minimizes free energy. This sensitivity corresponds to the precision of beliefs about behavior, such that attainable goals are afforded a higher precision or confidence. In turn, this means that optimal behavior entails a representation of confidence about outcomes that are under an agent's control.
39	bayesian	2009	McArdle, JJ; Grimm, KJ; Hamagami, F; Bowles, RP; Meredith, W	Modeling Life-Span Growth Curves of Cognition Using Longitudinal Data With Multiple Samples and Changing Scales of Measurement	PSYCHOLOGICAL METHODS	The authors use multiple-sample longitudinal data from different test batteries to examine propositions about changes in constructs over the life span. The data come from 3 classic studies on intellectual abilities in which, in combination, 441 persons were repeatedly measured as many as 16 times over 70 years. They measured cognitive constructs of vocabulary and memory using 8 age-appropriate intelligence test batteries and explore possible linkage of these scales using item response theory (IRT). They simultaneously estimated the parameters of both IRT and latent curve models based on a joint model likelihood approach (i.e., NLMIXED and WINBUGS). They included group differences in the model to examine potential interindividual differences in levels and change. The resulting longitudinal invariant Rasch test analyses lead to a few new methodological suggestions for dealing with repeated constructs based on changing measurements in developmental studies.
40	bayesian	2010	Kruschke, JK	Bayesian data analysis	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Bayesian methods have garnered huge interest in cognitive science as an approach to models of cognition and perception. On the other hand, Bayesian methods for data analysis have not yet made much headway in cognitive science against the institutionalized inertia of 20th century null hypothesis significance testing (NHST). Ironically, specific Bayesian models of cognition and perception may not long endure the ravages of empirical verification, but generic Bayesian methods for data analysis will eventually dominate. It is time that Bayesian data analysis became the norm for empirical methods in cognitive science. This article reviews a fatal flaw of NHST and introduces the reader to some benefits of Bayesian data analysis. The article presents illustrative examples of multiple comparisons in Bayesian analysis of variance and Bayesian approaches to statistical power. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2010 1 658-676
41	bayesian	2003	Huber, DE; O'Reilly, RC	Persistence and accommodation in short-term priming and other perceptual paradigms: temporal segregation through synaptic depression	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Perceptual input changes constantly in an unpredictable fashion, often changing before our somewhat sluggish perceptual systems have adequately processed this input. This can give rise to source confusion-how do we know whether a given perceptual activation is due to the current input, or a previous input that had yet to be completely processed? We propose that activity-dependent neural accommodation naturally limits this source confusion by suppressing items once they have been identified. We review behavioral paradigms from different literatures that measure the correlates of persistence and accommodation. Of the various accommodative mechanisms, we focus on synaptic depression, deriving a rate-coded expression that can be used to produce accommodating dynamics in any neural network with real valued activation. We implement this expression in a hierarchical model of perception termed, "a neural mechanism for responding optimally with unknown sources of evidence" (nROUSE). This model can be viewed as a more detailed version of the more abstract ROUSE model of Huber, Shiffrin, Lyle, and Ruys (2001), which produces accommodated levels of feature evidence through an optimal calculation. We apply nROUSE to three short-term priming experiments that manipulated prime duration. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
42	bayesian	2013	Shi, ZH; Church, RM; Meck, WH	Bayesian optimization of time perception	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Precise timing is crucial to decision-making and behavioral control, yet subjective time can be easily distorted by various temporal contexts. Application of a Bayesian framework to various forms of contextual calibration reveals that, contrary to popular belief, contextual biases in timing help to optimize overall performance under noisy conditions. Here, we review recent progress in understanding these forms of temporal calibration, and integrate a Bayesian framework with information-processing models of timing. We show that the essential components of a Bayesian framework are closely related to the clock, memory, and decision stages used by these models, and that such an integrated framework offers a new perspective on distortions in timing and time perception that are otherwise difficult to explain.
43	bayesian	2008	Gigerenzer, G; Hoffrage, U; Goldstein, DG	Fast and frugal heuristics are plausible models of cognition: Reply to Dougherty, Franco-Watkins, and Thomas (2008)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. R. Dougherty, A. M. Franco-Watkins, and R. Thomas (2008) conjectured that fast and frugal heuristics need an automatic frequency counter for ordering cues. In fact, only a few heuristics order cues, and these orderings can arise from evolutionary, social, or individual learning, none of which requires automatic frequency counting. The idea that cue validities cannot be computed because memory does not encode missing information is misinformed; it implies that measures of co-occurrence are incomputable and would invalidate most theories of cue learning. They also questioned the recognition heuristic's psychological plausibility on the basis of their belief that it has not been implemented in a memory model, although it actually has been implemented in ACT-R (L. J. Schooler & R. Hertwig, 2005). On the positive side, M. R. Dougherty et al. discovered a new mechanism for a less-is-more effect. The authors of the present article specify minimal criteria for psychological plausibility, describe some genuine challenges in the study of heuristics, and conclude that fast and frugal heuristics are psychologically plausible: They use limited search and are tractable and robust.
44	bayesian	2006	Fu, WT; Gray, WD	Suboptimal tradeoffs in information seeking	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Explicit information-seeking actions are needed to evaluate alternative actions in problem-solving tasks. Information-seeking costs are often traded of against the utility of information. We present three experiments that show how subjects adapt to the cost and information structures of environments in a map-navigation task. We found that subjects often stabilize at suboptimal levels of performance. A Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) is proposed and implemented in the ACT-R architecture to predict information-seeking behavior. The BSM uses a local decision rule and a global Bayesian learning mechanism to decide when to stop seeking information. The model matched the human data well, suggesting that adaptation to cost and information structures can be achieved by a simple local decision rule. The local decision rule, however, often limits exploration of the environment and leads to suboptimal performance. We propose that suboptimal performance is an emergent property of the dynamic interactions between cognition and the environment. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
45	bayesian	2012	Desmarais, MC; Baker, RSJD	A review of recent advances in learner and skill modeling in intelligent learning environments	USER MODELING AND USER-ADAPTED INTERACTION	In recent years, learner models have emerged from the research laboratory and research classrooms into the wider world. Learner models are now embedded in real world applications which can claim to have thousands, or even hundreds of thousands, of users. Probabilistic models for skill assessment are playing a key role in these advanced learning environments. In this paper, we review the learner models that have played the largest roles in the success of these learning environments, and also the latest advances in the modeling and assessment of learner skills. We conclude by discussing related advancements in modeling other key constructs such as learner motivation, emotional and attentional state, meta-cognition and self-regulated learning, group learning, and the recent movement towards open and shared learner models.
46	bayesian	2005	Lee, MD; Webb, MR	Modeling individual differences in cognition	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Many evaluations of cognitive models rely on data that have been averaged or aggregated across all experimental subjects, and so fail to consider the possibility of important individual differences between subjects. Other evaluations are done at the single-subject level, and so fail to benefit from the reduction of noise that data averaging or aggregation potentially provides. To overcome these weaknesses, we have developed a general approach to modeling individual differences using families of cognitive models in which different groups of subjects are identified as having different psychological behavior. Separate models with separate parameterizations are applied to each group of subjects, and Bayesian model selection is used to determine the appropriate number of groups. We evaluate this individual differences approach in a simulation study and show that it is superior in terms of the key modeling goals of prediction and understanding. We also provide two practical demonstrations of the approach, one using the ALCOVE model of category learning with data from four previously analyzed category learning experiments, the other using multidimensional scaling representational models with previously analyzed similarity data for colors. In both demonstrations, meaningful individual differences are found and the psychological models are able to account for this variation through interpretable differences in parameterization. The results highlight the potential of extending cognitive models to consider individual differences.
47	bayesian	2000	Fischle, M	Mass response to the Lewinsky scandal: Motivated reasoning or Bayesian updating?	POLITICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This study attempts to account for the vastly different trajectories taken by mass and elite opinion in the wake of the Lewinsky affair. Data from a panel study, collected before and just after the scandal broke, suggest that Clinton's prior popularity indelibly colored mass response to the scandal, thereby constraining citizens' reactions. As would be predicted by theories of "motivated reasoning" the influence of various considerations (like the credibility and importance of the allegations) on reactions to the scandal was conditional upon prior affect for the president. Such findings are difficult to accommodate within the more rational "Bayesian updating" perspective. These data shed light on mass response to the Lewinsky scandal in particular and citizen reaction to presidential behavior more generally, as well as on the cognitive mechanisms that facilitate motivated reasoning in candidate evaluation.
48	bayesian	2003	Geisler, WS; Diehl, RL	A Bayesian approach to the evolution of perceptual and cognitive systems	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We describe a formal framework for analyzing how statistical properties of natural environments and the process of natural selection interact to determine the design of perceptual and cognitive systems. The framework consists of two parts: a Bayesian ideal observer with a utility function appropriate for natural selection, and a Bayesian formulation of Darwin's theory of natural selection. Simulations of Bayesian natural selection were found to yield new insights, for example, into the co-evolution of camouflage, color vision, and decision criteria. The Bayesian framework captures and generalizes, in a formal way, many of the important ideas of other approaches to perception and cognition. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
49	bayesian	2010	Shi, L; Griffiths, TL; Feldman, NH; Sanborn, AN	Exemplar models as a mechanism for performing Bayesian inference	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Probabilistic models have recently received much attention as accounts of human cognition. However, most research in which probabilistic models have been used has been focused on formulating the abstract problems behind cognitive tasks and their optimal solutions, rather than on mechanisms that could implement these solutions. Exemplar models are a successful class of psychological process models in which an inventory of stored examples is used to solve problems such as identification, categorization, and function learning. We show that exemplar models can be used to perform a sophisticated form of Monte Carlo approximation known as importance sampling and thus provide a way to perform approximate Bayesian inference. Simulations of Bayesian inference in speech perception, generalization along a single dimension, making predictions about everyday events, concept learning, and reconstruction from memory show that exemplar models can often account for human performance with only a few exemplars, for both simple and relatively complex prior distributions. These results suggest that exemplar models provide a possible mechanism for implementing at least some forms of Bayesian inference.
50	bayesian	2003	Verschure, PFMJ; Althaus, P	A real-world rational agent: unifying old and new AI	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Explanations of cognitive processes provided by traditional artificial intelligence were based on the notion of the knowledge level. This perspective has been challenged by new Al that proposes an approach based on embodied systems that interact with the real-world. We demonstrate that these two views can be unified. Our argument is based on. the assumption that knowledge level explanations can be defined in the context of Bayesian theory while the goals of new Al are captured by using a well established robot based model of learning and problem solving, called Distributed Adaptive Control (DAC). In our analysis we consider random foraging and we prove that minor modifications of the DAC architecture renders a model that is equivalent to a Bayesian analysis of this task. Subsequently, we compare this enhanced, "rational," model to its "non-rational" predecessor and a further control condition using both simulated and real robots, in a variety of environments. Our results show that the changes made to the DAC architecture, in order to unify the perspectives of old and new AI, also lead to a significant improvement in random foraging. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
51	bayesian	2005	Paulin, MG	Evolution of the cerebellum as a neuronal machine for Bayesian state estimation	JOURNAL OF NEURAL ENGINEERING	The cerebellum evolved in association with the electric sense and vestibular sense of the earliest vertebrates. Accurate information provided by these sensory systems would have been essential for precise control of orienting behavior in predation. A simple model shows that individual spikes in electrosensory primary afferent neurons can be interpreted as measurements of prey location. Using this result, I construct a computational neural model in which the spatial distribution of spikes in a secondary electrosensory map forms a Monte Carlo approximation to the Bayesian posterior distribution of prey locations given the sense data. The neural circuit that emerges naturally to perform this task resembles the cerebellar-like hindbrain electrosensory filtering circuitry of sharks and other electrosensory vertebrates. The optimal filtering mechanism can be extended to handle dynamical targets observed from a dynamical platform; that is, to construct an optimal dynamical state estimator using spiking neurons. This may provide a generic model of cerebellar computation. Vertebrate motion-sensing neurons have specific fractional-order dynamical characteristics that allow Bayesian state estimators to be implemented elegantly and efficiently, using simple operations with asynchronous pulses, i.e. spikes. The computational neural models described in this paper represent a novel kind of particle filter, using spikes as particles. The models are specific and make testable predictions about computational mechanisms in cerebellar circuitry, while providing a plausible explanation of cerebellar contributions to aspects of motor control, perception and cognition.
52	bayesian	2013	Becker, JM; Rai, A; Ringle, CM; Volckner, F	DISCOVERING UNOBSERVED HETEROGENEITY IN STRUCTURAL EQUATION MODELS TO AVERT VALIDITY THREATS	MIS QUARTERLY	A large proportion of information systems research is concerned with developing and testing models pertaining to complex cognition, behaviors, and outcomes of individuals, teams, organizations, and other social systems that are involved in the development, implementation, and utilization of information technology. Given the complexity of these social and behavioral phenomena, heterogeneity is likely to exist in the samples used in IS studies. While researchers now routinely address observed heterogeneity by introducing moderators, a priori groupings, and contextual factors in their research models, they have not examined how unobserved heterogeneity may affect their findings. We describe why unobserved heterogeneity threatens different types of validity and use simulations to demonstrate that unobserved heterogeneity biases parameter estimates, thereby leading to Type I and Type II errors. We also review different methods that can be used to uncover unobserved heterogeneity in structural equation models. While methods to uncover unobserved heterogeneity in covariance-based structural equation models (CB-SEM) are relatively advanced, the methods for partial least squares (PLS) path models are limited and have relied on an extension of mixture regression-finite mixture partial least squares (FIMIX-PLS) and distance measure-based methods-that have mismatches with some characteristics of PLS path modeling. We propose a new method-prediction-oriented segmentation (PLS-POS)-to overcome the limitations of FIMIX-PLS and other distance measure-based methods and conduct extensive simulations to evaluate the ability of PLS-POS and FIMIX-PLS to discover unobserved heterogeneity in both structural and measurement models. Our results show that both PLS-POS and FIMIX-PLS perform
53	bayesian	2003	Lee, SM; Abbott, PA	Bayesian networks for knowledge discovery in large datasets: basics for nurse researchers	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The growth of nursing databases necessitates new approaches to data analyses. These databases, which are known to be massive and multidimensional, easily exceed the capabilities of both human cognition and traditional analytical approaches. One innovative approach, knowledge discovery in large databases (KDD), allows investigators to analyze very large data sets more comprehensively in an automatic or a semi-automatic manner. Among KDD techniques, Bayesian networks, a state-of-the art representation of probabilistic knowledge by a graphical diagram, has emerged in recent years as essential for pattern recognition and classification in the healthcare field. Unlike some data mining techniques, Bayesian networks allow investigators to combine domain knowledge with statistical data, enabling nurse researchers to incorporate clinical and theoretical knowledge into the process of knowledge discovery in large datasets. This tailored discussion presents the basic concepts of Bayesian networks and their use as knowledge discovery tools for nurse researchers. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
54	bayesian	1998	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Who uses base rates and P(D/similar to H)? An analysis of individual differences	MEMORY & COGNITION	In two experiments, involving over 900 subjects, we examined the cognitive correlates of the tendency to view P(D/similar to H) and base rate information as relevant to probability assessment. We found that individuals who viewed P(D/similar to H) as relevant in a selection task and who used it to make the proper Bayesian adjustment in a probability assessment task scored higher on tests of cognitive ability and were better deductive and inductive reasoners. They were less biased by prior beliefs and more data-driven on a covariation assessment task. In contrast, individuals who thought that base rates were relevant did not display better reasoning skill or higher cognitive ability. Our results parallel disputes about the normative status of various components of the Bayesian formula in interesting ways. It is argued that patterns of covariance among reasoning tasks may have implications for inferences about what individuals are trying to optimize in a rational analysis (J. R. Anderson, 1990, 1991).
55	bayesian	2010	Meltzoff, AN; Brooks, R; Shon, AP; Rao, RPN	"Social" robots are psychological agents for infants: A test of gaze following	NEURAL NETWORKS	Gaze following is a key component of human social cognition. Gaze following directs attention to areas of high information value and accelerates social, causal, and cultural learning. An issue for both robotic and infant learning is whose gaze to follow. The hypothesis tested in this study is that infants use information derived from an entity's interactions with other agents as evidence about whether that entity is a perceiver. A robot was programmed so that it could engage in communicative, imitative exchanges with an adult experimenter. Infants who saw the robot act in this social-communicative fashion were more likely to follow its line of regard than those without such experience. Infants use prior experience with the robot's interactions as evidence that the robot is a psychological agent that can see. Infants want to look at what the robot is seeing, and thus shift their visual attention to the external target. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier Ltd
56	bayesian	2013	Goodman, ND; Stuhlmuller, A	Knowledge and Implicature: Modeling Language Understanding as Social Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Is language understanding a special case of social cognition? To help evaluate this view, we can formalize it as the rational speech-act theory: Listeners assume that speakers choose their utterances approximately optimally, and listeners interpret an utterance by using Bayesian inference to invert this model of the speaker. We apply this framework to model scalar implicature (some implies not all, and N implies not more than N). This model predicts an interaction between the speaker's knowledge state and the listener's interpretation. We test these predictions in two experiments and find good fit between model predictions and human judgments.
57	bayesian	2013	Turner, BM; Forstmann, BU; Wagenmakers, EJ; Brown, SD; Sederberg, PB; Steyvers, M	A Bayesian framework for simultaneously modeling neural and behavioral data	NEUROIMAGE	Scientists who study cognition infer underlying processes either by observing behavior (e.g., response times, percentage correct) or by observing neural activity (e.g., the BOLD response). These two types of observations have traditionally supported two separate lines of study. The first is led by cognitive modelers, who rely on behavior alone to support their computational theories. The second is led by cognitive neuroimagers, who rely on statistical models to link patterns of neural activity to experimental manipulations, often without any attempt to make a direct connection to an explicit computational theory. Here we present a flexible Bayesian framework for combining neural and cognitive models. Joining neuroimaging and computational modeling in a single hierarchical framework allows the neural data to influence the parameters of the cognitive model and allows behavioral data, even in the absence of neural data, to constrain the neural model. Critically, our Bayesian approach can reveal interactions between behavioral and neural parameters, and hence between neural activity and cognitive mechanisms. We demonstrate the utility of our approach with applications to simulated fMRI data with a recognition model and to diffusion-weighted imaging data with a response time model of perceptual choice. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
58	bayesian	2012	Griffiths, TL; Chater, N; Norris, D; Pouget, A	How the Bayesians Got Their Beliefs (and What Those Beliefs Actually Are): Comment on Bowers and Davis (2012)	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Bowers and Davis (2012) criticize Bayesian modelers for telling "just so" stories about cognition and neuroscience. Their criticisms are weakened by not giving an accurate characterization of the motivation behind Bayesian modeling or the ways in which Bayesian models are used and by not evaluating this theoretical framework against specific alternatives. We address these points by clarifying our beliefs about the goals and status of Bayesian models and by identifying what we view as the unique merits of the Bayesian approach.
59	bayesian	2013	Marcus, GF; Davis, E	How Robust Are Probabilistic Models of Higher-Level Cognition?	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	An increasingly popular theory holds that the mind should be viewed as a near-optimal or rational engine of probabilistic inference, in domains as diverse as word learning, pragmatics, naive physics, and predictions of the future. We argue that this view, often identified with Bayesian models of inference, is markedly less promising than widely believed, and is undermined by post hoc practices that merit wholesale reevaluation. We also show that the common equation between probabilistic and rational or optimal is not justified.
60	bayesian	2012	Griffiths, TL; Vul, E; Sanborn, AN	Bridging Levels of Analysis for Probabilistic Models of Cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Probabilistic models of cognition characterize the abstract computational problems underlying inductive inferences and identify their ideal solutions. This approach differs from traditional methods of investigating human cognition, which focus on identifying the cognitive or neural processes that underlie behavior and therefore concern alternative levels of analysis. To evaluate the theoretical implications of probabilistic models and increase their predictive power, we must understand the relationships between theories at these different levels of analysis. One strategy for bridging levels of analysis is to explore cognitive processes that have a direct link to probabilistic inference. Recent research employing this strategy has focused on the possibility that the Monte Carlo principle-which concerns sampling from probability distributions in order to perform computations-provides a way to link probabilistic models of cognition to more concrete cognitive and neural processes.
61	bayesian	2012	Piantadosi, ST; Tenenbaum, JB; Goodman, ND	Bootstrapping in a language of thought: A formal model of numerical concept learning	COGNITION	In acquiring number words, children exhibit a qualitative leap in which they transition from understanding a few number words, to possessing a rich system of interrelated numerical concepts. We present a computational framework for understanding this inductive leap as the consequence of statistical inference over a sufficiently powerful representational system. We provide an implemented model that is powerful enough to learn number word meanings and other related conceptual systems from naturalistic data. The model shows that bootstrapping can be made computationally and philosophically well-founded as a theory of number learning. Our approach demonstrates how learners may combine core cognitive operations to build sophisticated representations during the course of development, and how this process explains observed developmental patterns in number word learning. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
62	bayesian	2008	Vasudevan, S; Siegwart, R	Bayesian space conceptualization and place classification for semantic maps in mobile robotics	ROBOTICS AND AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS	The future of robots, as our companions is dependent on their ability to understand, interpret and represent the environment in a human compatible manner. Towards this aim, this work attempts to create a hierarchical probabilistic concept-oriented representation of space, based on objects. Specifically, it details efforts taken towards learning and generating concepts and attempts to classify places using the concepts gleaned. Several algorithms, from naive ones using only object category presence to more sophisticated ones using both objects and relationships, are proposed. Both learning and inference use the information encoded in the underlying representation-objects and relative spatial information between them. The approaches are based on learning from exemplars, clustering and the use of Bayesian network classifiers. The approaches are generative. Further, even though they are based on learning from exemplars, they are not ontology specific; i.e. they do not assume the use of any particular ontology. The presented algorithms rely on a robots inherent high-level feature extraction capability (object recognition and structural element extraction) capability to actually form concept models and infer them. Thus, this report presents methods that could enable a robot to to link sensory information to increasingly abstract concepts (spatial constructs). Such a conceptualization and the representation that results thereof would enable robots to be more cognizant of their surroundings and yet, compatible to us. Experiments on conceptualization and place classification are reported. Thus, the theme of this work is-conceptualization and classification for representation and spatial cognition. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
63	bayesian	2013	Hamlin, JK; Ullman, T; Tenenbaum, J; Goodman, N; Baker, C	The mentalistic basis of core social cognition: experiments in preverbal infants and a computational model	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Evaluating individuals based on their pro- and anti-social behaviors is fundamental to successful human interaction. Recent research suggests that even preverbal infants engage in social evaluation; however, it remains an open question whether infants' judgments are driven uniquely by an analysis of the mental states that motivate others' helpful and unhelpful actions, or whether non-mentalistic inferences are at play. Here we present evidence from 10-month-olds, motivated and supported by a Bayesian computational model, for mentalistic social evaluation in the first year of life.A video abstract of this article can be viewed at http://youtu.be/rD_Ry5oqCYE
64	bayesian	2004	Regier, T; Gahl, S	Learning the unlearnable: the role of missing evidence	COGNITION	Syntactic knowledge is widely held to be partially innate, rather than learned. In a classic example, it is sometimes argued that children know the proper use of anaphoric one, although that knowledge could not have been learned from experience. Lidz et al. [Lidz, J., Waxman, S., & Freedman, J. (2003). What infants know about syntax but couldn't have learned: Experimental evidence for syntactic structure at 18 months. Cognition, 89, B65-B73.] pursue this argument, and present corpus and experimental evidence that appears to support it; they conclude that specific aspects of this knowledge must be innate. We demonstrate, contra Lidz et al., that this knowledge may in fact be acquired from the input, through a simple Bayesian learning procedure. The learning procedure succeeds because it is sensitive to the absence of particular input patterns-an aspect of learning that is apparently overlooked by Lidz et al. More generally, we suggest that a prominent form of the "argument from poverty of the stimulus" suffers from the same oversight, and is as a result logically unsound. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
65	bayesian	2015	Boekel, W; Wagenmakers, EJ; Belay, L; Verhagen, J; Brown, S; Forstmann, BU	A purely confirmatory replication study of structural brain-behavior correlations	CORTEX	A recent 'crisis of confidence' has emerged in the empirical sciences. Several studies have suggested that questionable research practices (QRPs) such as optional stopping and selective publication may be relatively widespread. These QRPs can result in a high proportion of false-positive findings, decreasing the reliability and replicability of research output. A potential solution is to register experiments prior to data acquisition and analysis. In this study we attempted to replicate studies that relate brain structure to behavior and cognition. These structural brain-behavior (SBB) correlations occasionally receive much attention in science and in the media. Given the impact of these studies, it is important to investigate their replicability. Here, we attempt to replicate five SBB correlation studies comprising a total of 17 effects. To prevent the impact of QRPs we employed a preregistered, purely confirmatory replication approach. For all but one of the 17 findings under scrutiny, confirmatory Bayesian hypothesis tests indicated evidence in favor of the null hypothesis ranging from anecdotal (Bayes factor < 3) to strong (Bayes factor > 10). In several studies, effect size estimates were substantially lower than in the original studies. To our knowledge, this is the first multi-study confirmatory replication of SBB correlations. With this study, we hope to encourage other researchers to undertake similar replication attempts. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
66	bayesian	2006	Wagenmakers, EJ; Grunwald, P; Steyvers, M	Accumulative prediction error and the selection of time series models	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article reviews the rationale for using accumulative one-step-ahead prediction error (APE) as a data-driven method for model selection. Theoretically, APE is closely related to Bayesian model selection and the method of minimum description length (MDL). The sole requirement for using APE is that the models under consideration are capable of generating a prediction for the next, unseen data point. This means that APE may be readily applied to selection problems involving very complex models. APE automatically takes the functional form of parameters into account, and the 'plug-in' version of APE does not require the specification of priors. APE is particularly easy to compute for data that have a natural ordering, such as time series. Here, we explore the possibility of using APE to discriminate the short-range ARMA(1, 1) model from the long-range ARFIMA(0,d, 0) model. We also illustrate how APE may be used for model meta-selection, allowing one to choose between different model selection methods. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
67	bayesian	2015	Friston, K; Frith, C	A Duet for one	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper considers communication in terms of inference about the behaviour of others (and our own behaviour). It is based on the premise that our sensations are largely generated by other agents like ourselves. This means, we are trying to infer how our sensations are caused by others, while they are trying to infer our behaviour: for example, in the dialogue between two speakers. We suggest that the infinite regress induced by modelling another agent - who is modelling you - can be finessed if you both possess the same model. In other words, the sensations caused by others and oneself are generated by the same process. This leads to a view of communication based upon a narrative that is shared by agents who are exchanging sensory signals. Crucially, this narrative transcends agency and simply involves intermittently attending to and attenuating sensory input. Attending to sensations enables the shared narrative to predict the sensations generated by another (i.e. to listen), while attenuating sensory input enables one to articulate the narrative (i.e. to speak). This produces a reciprocal exchange of sensory signals that, formally, induces a generalised synchrony between internal (neuronal) brain states generating predictions in both agents. We develop the arguments behind this perspective, using an active (Bayesian) inference framework and offer some simulations (of birdsong) as proof of principle. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.orgilicenses/by/3.0/).
68	bayesian	2003	Pitt, MA; Kim, W; Myung, IJ	Flexibility versus generalizability in model selection	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Which quantitative method should be used to choose among competing mathematical models of cognition? Massaro, Cohen, Campbell, and Rodriguez (2001) favor root mean squared deviation (RMSD), choosing the model that provides the best fit to the data. Their simulation results appear to legitimize its use for comparing two models of information integration because it performed just as well as Bayesian model selection (BMS), which had previously been shown by Myung and Pitt (1997) to be a superior alternative selection method because it considers a model's complexity in addition to its fit. In the present study, after contrasting the theoretical approaches to model selection espoused by Massaro et al. and Myung and Pitt, we discuss the cause of the inconsistencies by expanding on the simulations of Massaro et al. Findings demonstrate that the results from model recovery simulations can be misleading if they are not interpreted relative to the data on which they were evaluated, and that BMS is a more robust selection method.
69	bayesian	2013	Seth, AK; Critchley, HD	Extending predictive processing to the body: Emotion as interoceptive inference	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The Bayesian brain hypothesis provides an attractive unifying framework for perception, cognition, and action. We argue that the framework can also usefully integrate interoception, the sense of the internal physiological condition of the body. Our model of "interoceptive predictive coding" entails a new view of emotion as interoceptive inference and may account for a range of psychiatric disorders of selfhood.
70	bayesian	2012	Shafto, P; Goodman, ND; Frank, MC	Learning From Others: The Consequences of Psychological Reasoning for Human Learning	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	From early childhood, human beings learn not only from collections of facts about the world but also from social contexts through observations of other people, communication, and explicit teaching. In these contexts, the data are the result of human actions-actions that come about because of people's goals and intentions. To interpret the implications of others' actions correctly, learners must understand the people generating the data. Most models of learning, however, assume that data are randomly collected facts about the world and cannot explain how social contexts influence learning. We provide a Bayesian analysis of learning from knowledgeable others, which formalizes how learners may use a person's actions and goals to make inferences about the actor's knowledge about the world. We illustrate this framework using two examples from causal learning and conclude by discussing the implications for cognition, social reasoning, and cognitive development.
71	bayesian	2011	Pezzulo, G; Dindo, H	What should I do next? Using shared representations to solve interaction problems	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Studies on how "the social mind" works reveal that cognitive agents engaged in joint actions actively estimate and influence another's cognitive variables and form shared representations with them. (How) do shared representations enhance coordination? In this paper, we provide a probabilistic model of joint action that emphasizes how shared representations help solving interaction problems. We focus on two aspects of the model. First, we discuss how shared representations permit to coordinate at the level of cognitive variables (beliefs, intentions, and actions) and determine a coherent unfolding of action execution and predictive processes in the brains of two agents. Second, we discuss the importance of signaling actions as part of a strategy for sharing representations and the active guidance of another's actions toward the achievement of a joint goal. Furthermore, we present data from a human-computer experiment (the Tower Game) in which two agents (human and computer) have to build together a tower made of colored blocks, but only the human knows the constellation of the tower to be built (e.g., red-blue-red-blue-...). We report evidence that humans use signaling strategies that take another's uncertainty into consideration, and that in turn our model is able to use humans' actions as cues to "align" its representations and to select complementary actions.
72	bayesian	2014	Vul, E; Goodman, N; Griffiths, TL; Tenenbaum, JB	One and Done? Optimal Decisions From Very Few Samples	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In many learning or inference tasks human behavior approximates that of a Bayesian ideal observer, suggesting that, at some level, cognition can be described as Bayesian inference. However, a number of findings have highlighted an intriguing mismatch between human behavior and standard assumptions about optimality: People often appear to make decisions based on just one or a few samples from the appropriate posterior probability distribution, rather than using the full distribution. Although sampling-based approximations are a common way to implement Bayesian inference, the very limited numbers of samples often used by humans seem insufficient to approximate the required probability distributions very accurately. Here, we consider this discrepancy in the broader framework of statistical decision theory, and ask: If people are making decisions based on samples-but as samples are costly-how many samples should people use to optimize their total expected or worst-case reward over a large number of decisions? We find that under reasonable assumptions about the time costs of sampling, making many quick but locally suboptimal decisions based on very few samples may be the globally optimal strategy over long periods. These results help to reconcile a large body of work showing sampling-based or probability matching behavior with the hypothesis that human cognition can be understood in Bayesian terms, and they suggest promising future directions for studies of resource-constrained cognition.
73	bayesian	2013	Schmidt, A; Diaconescu, AO; Kometer, M; Friston, KJ; Stephan, KE; Vollenweider, FX	Modeling Ketamine Effects on Synaptic Plasticity During the Mismatch Negativity	CEREBRAL CORTEX	This paper presents a model-based investigation of mechanisms underlying the reduction of mismatch negativity (MMN) amplitudes under the NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine. We applied dynamic causal modeling and Bayesian model selection to data from a recent ketamine study of the roving MMN paradigm, using a cross-over, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Our modeling was guided by a predictive coding framework that unifies contemporary "adaptation" and "model adjustment" MMN theories. Comparing a series of dynamic causal models that allowed for different expressions of neuronal adaptation and synaptic plasticity, we obtained 3 major results: 1) We replicated previous results that both adaptation and short-term plasticity are necessary to explain MMN generation per se; 2) we found significant ketamine effects on synaptic plasticity, but not adaptation, and a selective ketamine effect on the forward connection from left primary auditory cortex to superior temporal gyrus; 3) this model-based estimate of ketamine effects on synaptic plasticity correlated significantly with ratings of ketamine-induced impairments in cognition and control. Our modeling approach thus suggests a concrete mechanism for ketamine effects on MMN that correlates with drug-induced psychopathology. More generally, this demonstrates the potential of modeling for inferring on synaptic physiology, and its pharmacological modulation, from electroencephalography data.
74	bayesian	2009	Synofzik, M; Vosgerau, G; Lindner, A	Me or not me - An optimal integration of agency cues?	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Recent work has demonstrated that the sense of agency is not only determined by efference-copy-based internal predictions and internal comparator mechanisms, but by a large variety of different internal and external cues. The study by Moore and colleagues [Moore, J. W., Wegner, D. M., & Haggard, P. (2009). Modulating the sense of agency with external cues. Conscious and Cognition] aimed to provide further evidence for this view by demonstrating that external agency cues might outweigh or even substitute efferent signals to install a basic registration of self-agency. Although the study contains some critical points that, so we argue, are central to a proper interpretation of the data, it hints at a new perspective on agency: optimal cue integration seems to be the key to a robust sense of agency. We here argue that this framework could allow integrating the findings of Moore and colleagues and other recent agency studies into a comprehensive picture of the sense of agency and its pathological disruptions. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
75	bayesian	2008	Mozer, MC; Pashler, H; Homaei, H	Optimal Predictions in Everyday Cognition: The Wisdom of Individuals or Crowds?	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Griffiths and Tenenbaum (2006) asked individuals to make predictions about the duration or extent of everyday events (e.g., cake baking times), and reported that predictions were optimal, employing Bayesian inference based on veridical prior distributions. Although the predictions conformed strikingly to statistics of the world, they reflect averages over many individuals. On the conjecture that the accuracy of the group response is chiefly a consequence of aggregating across individuals, we constructed simple, heuristic approximations to the Bayesian model premised on the hypothesis that individuals have access merely to a sample of k instances drawn from the relevant distribution. The accuracy of the group response reported by Griffiths and Tenenbaum could be accounted for by supposing that individuals each utilize only two instances. Moreover, the variability of the group data is more consistent with this small-sample hypothesis than with the hypothesis that people utilize veridical or nearly veridical representations of the underlying prior distributions. Our analyses lead to a qualitatively different view of how individuals reason from past experience than the view espoused by Griffiths and Tenenbaum.
76	bayesian	2013	Zaki, J	Cue Integration: A Common Framework for Social Cognition and Physical Perception	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Scientists examining how people understand other minds have long thought that this task must be something like how people perceive the physical world. This comparison has proven to be deeply generative, as models of physical perception and social cognition have evolved in parallel. In this article, I propose extending this classic analogy in a new direction by proposing cue integration as a common feature of social cognition and physical perception. When encountering complex social cues-which happens often-perceivers use multiple processes for understanding others' minds. Like physical senses (e.g., vision or audition), social cognitive processes have often been studied as though they operate in relative isolation. In the domain of physical perception, this assumption has broken down, following evidence that perception is instead characterized by pervasive integration of multisensory information. Such integration is, in turn, elegantly described by Bayesian inferential models. By adopting a similar cue integration framework, researchers can similarly understand and formally model the ways that we perceive others' minds based on complex social information.
77	bayesian	2013	Scheibehenne, B; Rieskamp, J; Wagenmakers, EJ	Testing Adaptive Toolbox Models: A Bayesian Hierarchical Approach	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Many theories of human cognition postulate that people are equipped with a repertoire of strategies to solve the tasks they face. This theoretical framework of a cognitive toolbox provides a plausible account of intra- and interindividual differences in human behavior. Unfortunately, it is often unclear how to rigorously test the toolbox framework. How can a toolbox model be quantitatively specified? How can the number of toolbox strategies be limited to prevent uncontrolled strategy sprawl? How can a toolbox model be formally tested against alternative theories? The authors show how these challenges can be met by using Bayesian inference techniques. By means of parameter recovery simulations and the analysis of empirical data across a variety of domains (i.e., judgment and decision making, children's cognitive development, function learning, and perceptual categorization), the authors illustrate how Bayesian inference techniques allow toolbox models to be quantitatively specified, strategy sprawl to be contained, and toolbox models to be rigorously tested against competing theories. The authors demonstrate that their approach applies at the individual level but can also be generalized to the group level with hierarchical Bayesian procedures. The suggested Bayesian inference techniques represent a theoretical and methodological advancement for toolbox theories of cognition and behavior.
78	bayesian	2007	Grossberg, S	Towards a unified theory of neocortex: laminar cortical circuits for vision and cognition	COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE: THEORETICAL INSIGHTS INTO BRAIN FUNCTION	A key goal of computational neuroscience is to link brain mechanisms to behavioral functions. The present article describes recent progress towards explaining how laminar neocortical circuits give rise to biological intelligence. These circuits embody two new and revolutionary computational paradigms: Complementary Computing and Laminar Computing. Circuit properties include a novel synthesis of feedforward and feedback processing, of digital and analog processing, and of preattentive and attentive processing. This synthesis clarifies the appeal of Bayesian approaches but has a far greater predictive range that naturally extends to self-organizing processes. Examples from vision and cognition are summarized. A LAMINART architecture unifies properties of visual development, learning, perceptual grouping, attention, and 3D vision. A key modeling theme is that the mechanisms which enable development and learning to occur in a stable way imply properties of adult behavior. It is noted how higher-order attentional constraints can influence multiple cortical regions, and how spatial and object attention work together to learn view-invariant object categories. In particular, a form-fitting spatial attentional shroud can allow an emerging view-invariant object category to remain active while multiple view categories are associated with it during sequences of saccadic eye movements. Finally, the chapter summarizes recent work on the LIST PARSE model of cognitive information processing by the laminar circuits of prefrontal cortex. LIST PARSE models the short-term storage of event sequences in working memory, their unitization through learning into sequence, or list, chunks, and their read-out in planned sequential performance that is under volitional control. LIST PARSE provides a laminar embodiment of Item and Order working memories, also called Competitive Queuing models, that have been supported by both psychophysical and neurobiological data. These examples show how variations of a common laminar cortical design can embody properties of visual and cognitive intelligence that seem, at least on the surface, to be mechanistically unrelated.
79	bayesian	2013	Cipora, K; Nuerk, HC	Is the SNARC effect related to the level of mathematics? No systematic relationship observed despite more power, more repetitions, and more direct assessment of arithmetic skill	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The SNARC (spatial-numerical association of response codes) described that larger numbers are responded faster with the right hand and smaller numbers with the left hand. It is held in the literature that arithmetically skilled and nonskilled adults differ in the SNARC. However, the respective data are descriptive, and the decisive tests are nonsignificant. Possible reasons for this nonsignificance could be that in previous studies (a) very small samples were used, (b) there were too few repetitions producing too little power and, consequently, reliabilities that were too small to reach conventional significance levels for the descriptive skill differences in the SNARC, and (c) general mathematical ability was assessed by the field of study of students, while individual arithmetic skills were not examined. Therefore we used a much bigger sample, a lot more repetitions, and direct assessment of arithmetic skills to explore relations between the SNARC effect and arithmetic skills. Nevertheless, a difference in SNARC effect between arithmetically skilled and nonskilled participants was not obtained. Bayesian analysis showed positive evidence of a true null effect, not just a power problem. Hence we conclude that the idea that arithmetically skilled and nonskilled participants generally differ in the SNARC effect is not warranted by our data.
80	bayesian	2007	Rouder, JN; Morey, RD; Speckman, PL; Pratte, MS	Detecting chance: A solution to the null sensitivity problem in subliminal priming	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In many paradigms, the persuasiveness of subliminal priming relies on establishing that stimuli are undetectable. The standard significance test approach is ill-suited as null results may reflect either truly undetectable stimuli or a lack of power to resolve weakly detectable stimuli. We present a novel statistical model as an alternative. The model provides for estimates of the probability that each individual is truly at chance. Researchers may select individuals for whom there are sufficiently high probabilities of true undetectability. The model is hierarchical, and estimation is done within the Bayesian framework.
81	bayesian	2013	Knops, A; Zitzmann, S; McCrink, K	Examining the presence and determinants of operational momentum in childhood	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The operational momentum (OM) effect describes a systematic bias in estimating the outcomes of simple addition and subtraction problems. Outcomes of addition problems are overestimated while outcomes of subtraction problems are underestimated. The origin of OM remains debated. First, a flawed uncompression of numerical information during the course of mental arithmetic is supposed to cause OM due to linear arithmetic operations on a compressed magnitude code. Second, attentional shifts along the mental number line are thought to cause OM. A third hypothesis explains OM in 9-month olds by a cognitive heuristic of accepting more (less) than the original operand in addition (subtraction) problems. The current study attempts to disentangle these alternatives and systematically examines potential determinants of OM, such as reading fluency which has been found to modulate numerical spatial associations. A group of 32 6- and 7-year-old children was tested in non-symbolic addition and subtraction problems, in which they had to choose the correct outcome from an array of several possible outcomes. Reading capacity was assessed for half of the children while attentional measures were assessed in the other half. Thirty-two adults were tested with the identical paradigm to validate its potential of revealing OM. Children (and adults) were readily able to solve the problems. We replicated previous findings of OM in the adults group. Using a Bayesian framework we observed an inverse OM effect in children, i.e., larger overestimations for subtraction compared to addition. A significant correlation between children's level of attentional control and their propensity to exhibit OM was observed. The observed pattern of results, in particular the inverse OM in children is hard to reconcile with the previously proposed theoretical frameworks. The observed link between OM and the attentional system might be interpreted as evidence partially supporting the attentional shift hypothesis.
82	bayesian	2007	Rao, RPN; Shon, AP; Meltzoff, AN	A Bayesian model of imitation in infants and robots	IMITATION AND SOCIAL LEARNING IN ROBOTS, HUMANS AND ANIMALS: BEHAVIOURAL, SOCIAL AND COMMUNICATIVE DIMENSIONS	0
83	bayesian	2011	Wonnacott, E	Balancing generalization and lexical conservatism: An artificial language study with child learners	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Successful language acquisition involves generalization, but learners must balance this against the acquisition of lexical constraints. Such learning has been considered problematic for theories of acquisition: if learners generalize abstract patterns to new words, how do they learn lexically-based exceptions? One approach claims that learners use distributional statistics to make inferences about when generalization is appropriate, a hypothesis which has recently received support from Artificial Language Learning experiments with adult learners (Wonnacott, Newport, & Tanenhaus, 2008). Since adult and child language learning may be different (Hudson Kam & Newport, 2005), it is essential to extend these results to child learners. In the current work, four groups of children (6 years) were each exposed to one of four semi-artificial languages. The results demonstrate that children are sensitive to linguistic distributions at and above the level of particular lexical items, and that these statistics influence the balance between generalization and lexical conservatism. The data are in line with an approach which models generalization as rational inference and in particular with the predictions of the domain general hierarchical Bayesian model developed in Kemp, Perfors & Tenenbaum, 2006. This suggests that such models have relevance for theories of language acquisition. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
84	bayesian	2012	Shogenji, T	The degree of epistemic justification and the conjunction fallacy	SYNTHESE	This paper describes a formal measure of epistemic justification motivated by the dual goal of cognition, which is to increase true beliefs and reduce false beliefs. From this perspective the degree of epistemic justification should not be the conditional probability of the proposition given the evidence, as it is commonly thought. It should be determined instead by the combination of the conditional probability and the prior probability. This is also true of the degree of incremental confirmation, and I argue that any measure of epistemic justification is also a measure of incremental confirmation. However, the degree of epistemic justification must meet an additional condition, and all known measures of incremental confirmation fail to meet it. I describe this additional condition as well as a measure that meets it. The paper then applies the measure to the conjunction fallacy and proposes an explanation of the fallacy.
85	bayesian	2014	FitzGerald, THB; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	Model averaging, optimal inference, and habit formation	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Postulating that the brain performs approximate Bayesian inference generates principled and empirically testable models of neuronal function-the subject of much current interest in neuroscience and related disciplines. Current formulations address inference and learning under some assumed and particular model. In reality, organisms are often faced with an additional challenge-that of determining which model or models of their environment are the best for guiding behavior. Bayesian model averaging-which says that an agent should weight the predictions of different models according to their evidence-provides a principled way to solve this problem. Importantly, because model evidence is determined by both the accuracy and complexity of the model, optimal inference requires that these be traded off against one another. This means an agent's behavior should show an equivalent balance. We hypothesize that Bayesian model averaging plays an important role in cognition, given that it is both optimal and realizable within a plausible neuronal architecture. We outline model averaging and how it might be implemented, and then explore a number of implications for brain and behavior. In particular, we propose that model averaging can explain a number of apparently suboptimal phenomena within the framework of approximate (bounded) Bayesian inference, focusing particularly upon the relationship between goal-directed and habitual behavior.
86	bayesian	2010	Wu, H; Myung, JI; Batchelder, WH	Minimum description length model selection of multinomial processing tree models	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Multinomial processing tree (MPT) modeling has been widely and successfully applied as a statistical methodology for measuring hypothesized latent cognitive processes in selected experimental paradigms. In this article, we address the problem of selecting the best MPT model from a set of scientifically plausible MPT models, given observed data. We introduce a minimum description length (MDL) based model-selection approach that overcomes the limitations of existing methods such as the G(2)-based likelihood ratio test, the Akaike information criterion, and the Bayesian information criterion. To help ease the computational burden of implementing MDL, we provide a computer program in MATLAB that performs MDL-based model selection for any MPT model, with or without inequality constraints. Finally, we discuss applications of the MDL approach to well-studied MPT models with real data sets collected in two different experimental paradigms: source monitoring and pair clustering. The aforementioned MATLAB program may be downloaded from http://pbr.psychonomic-journals.org/content/supplemental.
87	bayesian	2004	Lee, MD	A Bayesian analysis of retention functions	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	A long standing goal of quantitative research in cognitive psychology has been to provide a lawful description of the retention of information over time. While a number of theoretical alternatives for a retention function have been developed, their empirical evaluation has almost exclusively relied on their ability to fit experimental data. This has meant that the issue of model complexity, which considers the number of parameter in a model and the functional form of parameter interaction, has generally not been considered in a rigorous way. This paper develops a Bayesian method for comparing retention models that naturally considers the competing demands of goodness-of-fit and complexity. We first implement the Bayesian method using numerical techniques, highlighting the basic properties of the method and showing, in particular, how assumptions about the precision of the data affect the inferences that are drawn. We then develop an analytic Bayesian method, based on the Laplacian approximation, that offers some theoretical insights into the inherent complexities of different retention functions, and has the practical advantage of being computationally efficient. We demonstrate both methods by evaluating linear, hyperbolic, exponential, logarithmic and power retention functions against the collection of data sets considered by Rubin and Wenzel (1996). (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
88	bayesian	2010	Steyvers, M	Combining feature norms and text data with topic models	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Many psychological theories of semantic cognition assume that concepts are represented by features. The empirical procedures used to elicit features from humans rely on explicit human judgments which limit the scope of such representations. An alternative computational framework for semantic cognition that does not rely on explicit human judgment is based on the statistical analysis of large text collections. In the topic modeling approach, documents are represented as a mixture of learned topics where each topic is represented as a probability distribution over words. We propose feature-topic models, where each document is represented by a mixture of learned topics as well as predefined topics that are derived from feature norms. Results indicate that this model leads to systematic improvements in generalization tasks. We show that the learned topics in the model play in an important role in the generalization performance by including words that are not part of current feature norms. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
89	bayesian	2009	Lewandowsky, S; Griffiths, TL; Kalish, ML	The Wisdom of Individuals: Exploring People's Knowledge About Everyday Events Using Iterated Learning	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Determining the knowledge that guides human judgments is fundamental to understanding how people reason, make decisions, and form predictions. We use an experimental procedure called ''iterated learning,'' in which the responses that people give on one trial are used to generate the data they see on the next, to pinpoint the knowledge that informs people's predictions about everyday events (e.g., predicting the total box office gross of a movie from its current take). In particular, we use this method to discriminate between two models of human judgments: a simple Bayesian model (Griffiths & Tenenbaum, 2006) and a recently proposed alternative model that assumes people store only a few instances of each type of event in memory (MinK; Mozer, Pashler, & Homaei, 2008). Although testing these models using standard experimental procedures is difficult due to differences in the number of free parameters and the need to make assumptions about the knowledge of individual learners, we show that the two models make very different predictions about the outcome of iterated learning. The results of an experiment using this methodology provide a rich picture of how much people know about the distributions of everyday quantities, and they are inconsistent with the predictions of the MinK model. The results suggest that accurate predictions about everyday events reflect relatively sophisticated knowledge on the part of individuals.
90	bayesian	2006	Bhattacharya, S; Ho, MHR; Purkayastha, S	A Bayesian approach to modeling dynamic effective connectivity with fMRI data	NEUROIMAGE	A state-space modeling approach for examining dynamic relationship between multiple brain regions was proposed in Ho, Ombao and Shumway (Ho, M.R., Ombao, H., Shumway, R., 2005. A State-Space Approach to Modelling Brain Dynamics to Appear in Statistica Sinica). Their approach assumed that the quantity representing the influence of one neuronal system over another, or effective connectivity, is time-invariant. However, more and more empirical evidence suggests that the connectivity between brain areas may be dynamic which calls for temporal modeling of effective connectivity. A Bayesian approach is proposed to solve this problem in this paper. Our approach first decomposes the observed time series into measurement error and the BOLD (blood oxygenation level-dependent) signals. To capture the complexities of the dynamic processes in the brain, region-specific activations are subsequently modeled, as a linear function of the BOLD signals history at other brain regions. The coefficients in these linear functions represent effective connectivity between the regions under consideration. They are further assumed to follow a random walk process so to characterize the dynamic nature of brain connectivity. We also consider the temporal dependence that may be present in the measurement errors. ML-11 method (Berger, J.O., 1985. Statistical Decision Theory and Bayesian Analysis (2nd ed.). Springer, New York) was employed to estimate the hyperparameters in the model and Bayes factor was used to compare among competing models. Statistical inference of the effective connectivity coefficients was based on their posterior distributions and the corresponding Bayesian credible regions (Carlin, B.P., Louis, T.A., 2000. Bayes and Empirical Bayes Methods for Data Analysis (2nd ed.). Chapman and Hall, Boca Raton). The proposed method was applied to a functional magnetic resonance imaging data set and results support the theory of attentional control network and demonstrate that this network is dynamic in nature. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
91	bayesian	1995	FRIEDMAN, D; MASSARO, DW; KITZIS, SN; COHEN, MM	A COMPARISON OF LEARNING-MODELS	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We investigate learning in a probabilistic task, called ''medical diagnosis.'' On each trial, a subject is presented with a stimulus configuration indicating the value of four medical symptoms. The subject responds by guessing which of two diseases is present and is then given feedback about which disease was actually present. The feedback is determined according to fixed conditional probabilities unknown to the subject. We test a normative Bayesian model as well as simple variants of well-known psychological models including the Fuzzy Logical Model of Perception, an Exemplar model, a two-layer Connectionist model and an ALCOVE model. Both the asymptotic predictions of these models (i.e., predictions regarding behavior after it has stabilized and learning is complete) and predictions of trial-by-trial changes in behavior are tested. The models are tested against existing data from Estes et al. (1989, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 15, 556-571) and new data from medical diagnosis tasks that include not only asymmetric but also symmetric base rates. Learning was observed in all cases in that subjects tended to match the objective probabilities of the symptom configurations more closely in later trials. All of the descriptive models give a more accurate account of performance than the normative Bayesian model. Relative to a benchmark measure, however, none of these models does an especially good job of characterizing asymptotic performance or the learning process. We suggest that future experiments should address individual performance, rather than group learning curves. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
92	bayesian	2011	Griffiths, TL; Tenenbaum, JB	Predicting the Future as Bayesian Inference: People Combine Prior Knowledge With Observations When Estimating Duration and Extent	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Predicting the future is a basic problem that people have to solve every day and a component of planning, decision making, memory, and causal reasoning. In this article, we present 5 experiments testing a Bayesian model of predicting the duration or extent of phenomena from their current state. This Bayesian model indicates how people should combine prior knowledge with observed data. Comparing this model with human judgments provides constraints on possible algorithms that people might use to predict the future. In the experiments, we examine the effects of multiple observations, the effects of prior knowledge, and the difference between independent and dependent observations, using both descriptions and direct experience of prediction problems. The results indicate that people integrate prior knowledge and observed data in a way that is consistent with our Bayesian model, ruling out some simple heuristics for predicting the future. We suggest some mechanisms that might lead to more complete algorithmic-level accounts.
93	bayesian	2010	Neal, A; Kilner, JM	What is simulated in the action observation network when we observe actions?	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	In the last decade there has been a great amount of research investigating the role of simulation in our ability to infer the underlying intentions of any observed action. The majority of studies have focussed on the role of mirror neurons and the network of cortical areas active during action observation (AON) in inferring the goal of an observed action. However, it remains unclear what precisely is simulated when we observe an action and how such simulations can enable the observer to infer the underlying intention of that action. In particular it is not known how simulation in the AON enables the inference of the same goal when the kinematics observed to achieve that goal differ, such as when reaching to grasp an object with the left or right hands. Here we performed a behavioural study with healthy human subjects to address this question. We show that the subjects were able to detect very subtle changes in the kinematics of an observed action. In addition, we fitted the behavioural responses with a model based on the predictive coding account of mirror neurons. This is a Bayesian account of action observation that can be explained by the free-energy principle. Here we show that we can model all the effects observed when the action observation system is considered within a predictive coding framework.
94	bayesian	2007	Gigerenzer, G; Hoffrage, U	The role of representation in Bayesian reasoning: Correcting common misconceptions	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The terms nested sets, partitive frequencies, inside-outside views and dual processes add little but confusion to our original analysis (Gigerenzer & Hoffrage 1995; 1999) The idea of nested set was introduced because of an oversight; it simply rephrases two of our equations. Representation in terms of chances, in contrast, is a novel contribution yet consistent with our computational analysis - it uses exactly the same numbers as natural frequencies. We show that non-bayesian reasoning in children, laypeople, and physicians follows multiple rules rather than a general-purpose associative process in a vaguely specified "System 1." It is unclear what the theory in "dual process theory" is: Unless the two processes are defined, this distinction call account hoc for almost everything. In contrast, an ecological view of cognition helps to explain insight is elicited from the outside (the external representation of information) and, more generally, how cognitive strategies match with environmental structures.
95	bayesian	2013	Zorzi, M; Testolin, A; Stoianov, IP	Modeling language and cognition with deep unsupervised learning: a tutorial overview	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Deep unsupervised learning in stochastic recurrent neural networks with many layers of hidden units is a recent breakthrough in neural computation research. These networks build a hierarchy of progressively more complex distributed representations of the sensory data by fitting a hierarchical generative model. In this article we discuss the theoretical foundations of this approach and we review key issues related to training, testing and analysis of deep networks for modeling language and cognitive processing. The classic letter and word perception problem of McClelland and Rumelhart (1981) is used as a tutorial example to illustrate how structured and abstract representations may emerge from deep generative learning. We argue that the focus on deep architectures and generative (rather than discriminative) learning represents a crucial step forward for the connectionist modeling enterprise, because it offers a more plausible model of cortical learning as well as a way to bridge the gap between emergentist connectionist models and structured Bayesian models of cognition.
96	bayesian	2011	Hsu, AS; Chater, N; Vitanyi, PMB	The probabilistic analysis of language acquisition: Theoretical, computational, and experimental analysis	COGNITION	There is much debate over the degree to which language learning is governed by innate language-specific biases, or acquired through cognition-general principles. Here we examine the probabilistic language acquisition hypothesis on three levels: We outline a novel theoretical result showing that it is possible to learn the exact generative model underlying a wide class of languages, purely from observing samples of the language. We then describe a recently proposed practical framework, which quantifies natural language learnability, allowing specific learnability predictions to be made for the first time. In previous work, this framework was used to make learnability predictions for a wide variety of linguistic constructions, for which learnability has been much debated. Here, we present a new experiment which tests these learnability predictions. We find that our experimental results support the possibility that these linguistic constructions are acquired probabilistically from cognition-general principles. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
97	bayesian	2005	Dennis, S	A memory-based theory of verbal cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The syntagmatic paradigmatic model is a distributed, memory-based account of verbal processing. Built on a Bayesian interpretation of string edit theory, it characterizes the control of verbal cognition as the retrieval of sets of syntagmatic and paradigmatic constraints from sequential and relational long-term memory and the resolution of these constraints in working memory. Lexical information is extracted directly from text using a version of the expectation maximization algorithm. In this article, the model is described and then illustrated on a number of phenomena, including sentence processing, semantic categorization and rating, short-term serial recall, and analogical and logical inference. Subsequently, the model is used to answer questions about a corpus of tennis news articles taken from the Internet. The model's success demonstrates that it is possible to extract propositional information from naturally occurring text without employing a grammar, defining a set of heuristics, or specifying a priori a set of semantic roles.
98	bayesian	2014	McClelland, JL; Mirman, D; Bolger, DJ; Khaitan, P	Interactive Activation and Mutual Constraint Satisfaction in Perception and Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In a seminal 1977 article, Rumelhart argued that perception required the simultaneous use of multiple sources of information, allowing perceivers to optimally interpret sensory information at many levels of representation in real time as information arrives. Building on Rumelhart's arguments, we present the Interactive Activation hypothesis-the idea that the mechanism used in perception and comprehension to achieve these feats exploits an interactive activation process implemented through the bidirectional propagation of activation among simple processing units. We then examine the interactive activation model of letter and word perception and the TRACE model of speech perception, as early attempts to explore this hypothesis, and review the experimental evidence relevant to their assumptions and predictions. We consider how well these models address the computational challenge posed by the problem of perception, and we consider how consistent they are with evidence from behavioral experiments. We examine empirical and theoretical controversies surrounding the idea of interactive processing, including a controversy that swirls around the relationship between interactive computation and optimal Bayesian inference. Some of the implementation details of early versions of interactive activation models caused deviation from optimality and from aspects of human performance data. More recent versions of these models, however, overcome these deficiencies. Among these is a model called the multinomial interactive activation model, which explicitly links interactive activation and Bayesian computations. We also review evidence from neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies supporting the view that interactive processing is a characteristic of the perceptual processing machinery in the brain. In sum, we argue that a computational analysis, as well as behavioral and neuroscience evidence, all support the Interactive Activation hypothesis. The evidence suggests that contemporary versions of models based on the idea of interactive activation continue to provide a basis for efforts to achieve a fuller understanding of the process of perception.
99	bayesian	2014	Naderpour, M; Lu, J; Zhang, GQ	An intelligent situation awareness support system for safety-critical environments	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Operators handling abnormal situations in safety-critical environments need to be supported from a cognitive perspective to reduce their workload, stress, and consequent error rate. Of the various cognitive activities, a correct understanding of the situation, i.e. situation awareness (SA), is a crucial factor in improving performance and reducing error. However, existing system safety researches focus mainly on technical issues and often neglect SA. This study presents an innovative cognition-driven decision support system called the situation awareness support system (SASS) to manage abnormal situations in safety-critical environments in which the effect of situational complexity on human decision-makers is a concern. To achieve this objective, a situational network modeling process and a situation assessment model that exploits the specific capabilities of dynamic Bayesian networks and risk indicators are first proposed. The SASS is then developed and consists of four major elements: 1) a situation data collection component that provides the current state of the observable variables based on online conditions and monitoring systems, 2) a situation assessment component based on dynamic Bayesian networks (DBN) to model the hazardous situations in a situational network and a fuzzy risk estimation method to generate the assessment result, 3) a situation recovery component that provides a basis for decision-making to reduce the risk level of situations to an acceptable level, and 4) a human-computer interface. The SASS is partially evaluated by a sensitivity analysis, which is carried out to validate DBN-based situational networks, and SA measurements are suggested for a full evaluation of the proposed system. The performance of the SASS is demonstrated by a case taken from US Chemical Safety Board reports, and the results demonstrate that the SASS provides a useful graphical, mathematically consistent system for dealing with incomplete and uncertain information to help operators maintain the risk of dynamic situations at an acceptable level. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
100	bayesian	2011	Jacobs, RA; Kruschke, JK	Bayesian learning theory applied to human cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Probabilistic models based on Bayes' rule are an increasingly popular approach to understanding human cognition. Bayesian models allow immense representational latitude and complexity. Because they use normative Bayesian mathematics to process those representations, they define optimal performance on a given task. This article focuses on key mechanisms of Bayesian information processing, and provides numerous examples illustrating Bayesian approaches to the study of human cognition. We start by providing an overview of Bayesian modeling and Bayesian networks. We then describe three types of information processing operations-inference, parameter learning, and structure learning-in both Bayesian networks and human cognition. This is followed by a discussion of the important roles of prior knowledge and of active learning. We conclude by outlining some challenges for Bayesian models of human cognition that will need to be addressed by future research. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2011 2 8-21 DOI: 10.1002/wcs.80
101	connectionism	1996	Sloman, SA	The empirical case for two systems of reasoning	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Distinctions have been proposed between systems of reasoning for centuries. This article distills properties shared by many of these distinctions and characterizes the resulting systems in light of recent findings and theoretical developments. One system is associative because its computations reflect similarity structure and relations of temporal contiguity. The other is ''rule based'' because it operates on symbolic structures that have logical content and variables and because its computations have the properties that are normally assigned to rules. The systems serve complementary functions and can simultaneously generate different solutions to a reasoning problem. The rule-based system can suppress the associative system but not completely inhibit it. The article reviews evidence in favor of the distinction and its characterization.
102	connectionism	1992	GEMAN, S; BIENENSTOCK, E; DOURSAT, R	NEURAL NETWORKS AND THE BIAS VARIANCE DILEMMA	NEURAL COMPUTATION	Feedforward neural networks trained by error backpropagation are examples of nonparametric regression estimators. We present a tutorial on nonparametric inference and its relation to neural networks, and we use the statistical viewpoint to highlight strengths and weaknesses of neural models. We illustrate the main points with some recognition experiments involving artificial data as well as handwritten numerals. In way of conclusion, we suggest that current-generation feed-forward neural networks are largely inadequate for difficult problems in machine perception and machine learning, regardless of parallel-versus-serial hardware or other implementation issues. Furthermore, we suggest that the fundamental challenges in neural modeling are about representation rather than learning per se. This last point is supported by additional experiments with handwritten numerals.
103	connectionism	1988	FODOR, JA; PYLYSHYN, ZW	CONNECTIONISM AND COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURE - A CRITICAL ANALYSIS	COGNITION	0
104	connectionism	1993	COLTHEART, M; CURTIS, B; ATKINS, P; HALLER, M	MODELS OF READING ALOUD - DUAL-ROUTE AND PARALLEL-DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACHES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	It has often been argued that various facts about skilled reading aloud cannot be explained by any model unless that model possesses a dual-route architecture (lexical and nonlexical routes from print to speech). This broad claim has been challenged by Seidenberg and McClelland (1989, 1990). Their model has but a single route from print to speech, yet, they contend, it can account for major facts about reading that have hitherto been claimed to require a dual-route architecture. The authors identify 6 of these major facts about reading. The 1-route model proposed by Seidenberg and McClelland can account for the first of these but not the remaining 5. Because models with dual-route architectures can explain all 6 of these basic facts about reading, the authors suggest that this remains the viable architecture for any tenable model of skilled reading and learning to read. The dual-route cascaded model, a computational version of the dual-route model, is described.
105	connectionism	1994	SHANKS, DR; STJOHN, MF	CHARACTERISTICS OF DISSOCIABLE HUMAN LEARNING-SYSTEMS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	A number of ways of taxonomizing human learning have ben proposed.  We examine the evidence for one such proposal, namely, that there exist independent explicit and implicit learning systems. This combines two further distinctions, (1) between learning that takes place with versus without concurrent awareness, and (2) between learning that involves the encoding of instances (or fragments) versus the induction of abstract rules or hypotheses.  Implicit learning is assumed to involve unconscious rule learning. We examine the evidence for implicit learning derived from subliminal learning, conditioning, artificial grammar learning, instrumental learning, and reaction times in sequence learning.  We conclude that unconscious learning has not been satisfactorily established in any of these areas.  The assumption that learning in some of theses tasks (e.g., artificial grammar learning) is predominantly based on rule abstraction is questionable.  When subjects cannot report the ''implicitly learned'' rules that govern stimulus selection, this is often because their knowledge consists of instances or fragments of the training stimuli rather than rules.  In contrast to the distinction between conscious and unconscious learning, the distinction between instance and rule learning is a sound and meaningful way of taxonomizing human learning.  We discuss various computational models of these two forms of learning.
106	connectionism	1988	SMOLENSKY, P	ON THE PROPER TREATMENT OF CONNECTIONISM	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	0
107	connectionism	1988	PINKER, S; PRINCE, A	ON LANGUAGE AND CONNECTIONISM - ANALYSIS OF A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL OF LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	COGNITION	0
108	connectionism	2008	Penn, DC; Holyoak, KJ; Povinelli, DJ	Darwin's mistake: Explaining the discontinuity between human and nonhuman minds	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Over the last quarter century, the dominant tendency in comparative cognitive psychology has been to emphasize the similarities between human and nonhuman minds and to downplay the differences as "one of degree and not of kind" (Darwin 1871). In the present target article, we argue that Darwin was mistaken: the profound biological continuity between human and nonhuman animals masks an equally profound discontinuity between human and nonhuman minds. To wit, there is a significant discontinuity in the degree to which human and nonhuman animals are able to approximate the higher-order, systematic, relational capabilities of a physical symbol system (PSS) (Newell 1980). We show that this symbolic-relational discontinuity pervades nearly every domain of cognition and runs much deeper than even the spectacular scaffolding provided by language or culture alone can explain. We propose a representational-level specification as to where human and nonhuman animals' abilities to approximate a PSS are similar and where they differ. We conclude by suggesting that recent symbolic-connectionist models of cognition shed new light on the mechanisms that underlie the gap between human and nonhuman minds.
109	connectionism	1993	SHASTRI, L; AJJANAGADDE, V	FROM SIMPLE ASSOCIATIONS TO SYSTEMATIC REASONING - A CONNECTIONIST REPRESENTATION OF RULES, VARIABLES AND DYNAMIC BINDINGS USING TEMPORAL SYNCHRONY	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Human agents draw a variety of inferences effortlessly, spontaneously, and with remarkable efficiency - as though these inferences were a reflexive response of their cognitive apparatus. Furthermore, these inferences are drawn with reference to a large body of background knowledge. This remarkable human ability seems paradoxical given the complexity of reasoning reported by researchers in artificial intelligence. It also poses a challenge for cognitive science and computational neuroscience: How can a system of simple and slow neuronlike elements represent a large body of systemic knowledge and perform a range of inferences with such speed? We describe a computational model that takes a step toward addressing the cognitive science challenge and resolving the artificial intelligence paradox. We show how a connectionist network can encode millions of facts and rules involving n-ary predicates and variables and perform a class of inferences in a few hundred milliseconds. Efficient reasoning requires the rapid representation and propagation of dynamic bindings. Our model (which we refer to as SHRUTI) achieves this by representing (1) dynamic bindings as the synchronous firing of appropriate nodes, (2) rules as interconnection patterns that direct the propagation of rhythmic activity, and (3) long-term facts as temporal pattern-matching subnetworks. The model is consistent with recent neurophysiological evidence that synchronous activity occurs in the brain and may play a representational role in neural information processing. The model also makes specific psychologically significant predictions about the nature of reflexive reasoning. It identifies constraints on the form of rules that may participate in such reasoning and relates the capacity of the working memory underlying reflexive reasoning to biological parameters such as the lowest frequency at which nodes can sustain synchronous oscillations and the coarseness of synchronization.
110	connectionism	1994	TOWELL, GG; SHAVLIK, JW	KNOWLEDGE-BASED ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Hybrid learning methods use theoretical knowledge of a domain and a set of classified examples to develop a method for accurately classifying examples not seen during training. The challenge of hybrid learning systems is to use the information provided by one source of information to offset information missing from the other source. By so doing, a hybrid learning system should learn more effectively than systems that use only one of the information sources. KBANN (Knowledge-Based Artificial Neural Networks) is a hybrid learning system built on top of connectionist learning techniques. It maps problem-specific ''domain theories'', represented in propositional logic, into neural networks and then refines this reformulated knowledge using backpropagation. KBANN is evaluated by extensive empirical tests on two problems from molecular biology. Among other results, these tests show that the networks created by KBANN generalize better than a wide variety of learning systems, as well as several techniques proposed by biologists.
111	connectionism	1992	MARCUS, GF; PINKER, S; ULLMAN, M; HOLLANDER, M; ROSEN, TJ; XU, F	OVERREGULARIZATION IN LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	MONOGRAPHS OF THE SOCIETY FOR RESEARCH IN CHILD DEVELOPMENT	Children extend regular grammatical patterns to irregular words, resulting in overregularizations like comed, often after a period of correct performance ("U-shaped development"). The errors seem paradigmatic of rule use, hence bear on central issues in the psychology of rules: how creative rule application interacts with memorized exceptions in development, how overgeneral rules are unlearned in the absence of parental feedback, and whether cognitive processes involve explicit rules or parallel distributed processing (connectionist) networks. We remedy the lack of quantitative data on overregularization by analyzing 11,521 irregular past tense utterances in the spontaneous speech of 83 children. Our findings are as follows. (1) Overregularization errors are relatively rare (median 2.5% of irregular past tense forms), suggesting that there is no qualitative defect in children's grammars that must be unlearned. (2) Overregularization occurs at a roughly constant low rate from the 2s into the school-age years, affecting most irregular verbs. (3) Although overregularization errors never predominate, one aspect of their purported U-shaped development was confirmed quantitatively: an extended period of correct performance precedes the first error. (4) Overregularization does not correlate with increases in the number or proportion of regular verbs in parental speech, children's speech, or children's vocabularies. Thus, the traditional account in which memory operates before rules cannot be replaced by a connectionist alternative in which a single network displays rotelike or rulelike behavior in response to changes in input statistics. (5) Overregularizations first appear when children begin to mark regular verbs for tense reliably (i.e., when they stop saying Yesterday I walk). (6) The more often a parent uses an irregular form, the less often the child overregularizes it. (7) Verbs are protected from overregularization by similar-sounding irregulars, but they are not attracted to overregularization by similar-sounding regulars, suggesting that irregular patterns are stored in an associative memory with connectionist properties, but that regulars are not. We propose a simple explanation. Children, like adults, mark tense using memory (for irregulars) and an affixation rule that can generate a regular past tense form for any verb. Retrieval of an irregular blocks the rule, but children's memory traces are not strong enough to guarantee perfect retrieval. When retrieval fails, the rule is applied, and overregularization results.
112	connectionism	1997	Gaskell, MG; Marslen-Wilson, WD	Integrating form and meaning: A distributed model of speech perception	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	We present a new distributed connectionist model of the perception of spoken words. The model employs a representation of speech that combines lexical information with abstract phonological information, with lexical access modelled as a direct mapping onto this single distributed representation. We first examine the integration of partial cues to phonological identity, showing that the model provides a sound basis for simulating phonetic and lexical decision data from Marslen-Wilson and Warren (1994). We then investigate the time course of lexical access, and argue that the process of competition between word candidates during lexical access can be interpreted in terms of interference between distributed lexical representations. The relation between our model and other models of spoken word recognition is discussed.
113	connectionism	1995	Marcus, GF; Brinkman, U; Clahsen, H; Wiese, R; Pinker, S	German inflection: The exception that proves the rule	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Language is often explained as the product of generative rules and a memorized lexicon. For example, most English verbs take a regular past tense suffix (ask-asked), which is applied to new verbs (faxed, wugged), suggesting the mental rule ''add-ed to a Verb.'' Irregular verbs (break-broke, go-went) would be listed in memory. Alternatively, a pattern associator memory (such as a connectionist network) might record all past tense forms and generalize to new ones by similarity; irregular and regular patterns would differ only because of their different numbers of verbs. We present evidence that mental rules are indispensible. A rule concatenates a suffix to a symbol for verbs, so it does not require access to memorized verbs or their sound patterns, but applies as the ''default,'' whenever memory access fails. We find 21 such circumstances for regular past tense formation, including novel, unusual-sounding, and rootless and headless derived words; in every case, people inflect them regularly (explaining quirks like flied out, sabre-tooths, walkmans). Contrary to the connectionist account, these effects are not due to regular words constituting a large majority of vocabulary. The German participle -t applies to a much smaller percentage of verbs than its English counterpart, and the German plural -s applies to a small minority of nouns. Bur the affixes behave in the language like their English counterparts, as defaults. We corroborate this effect in two experiments eliciting ratings of participle and plural forms of novel German words. Thus default suffixation is not due to numerous regular words reinforcing a pattern in associative memory. Because default cases do not occupy a cohesive similarity space, but do correspond to the range of a symbol, they are evidence for a memory-independent, symbol-concatenating mental operation. (C) 1995 Academic Press,Inc.
114	connectionism	2000	Beer, RD	Dynamical approaches to cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Dynamical ideas are beginning to have a major impact on cognitive science, from foundational debates to daily practice. In this article, I review three contrasting examples of work in this area that address the lexical and grammatical structure of language, Piaget's classic "A-not-B' error, and active categorical perception in an embodied, situated agent. From these three examples, I then attempt to articulate the major differences between dynamical approaches and more traditional symbolic and connectionist approaches. Although the three models reviewed here vary considerable in their details, they share a focus on the unfolding trajectory of a system's state and the internal and external forces that shape this trajectory, rather than the representational content of its constituent states or the underlying physical mechanism that instantiate the dynamics. In some work, this dynamical viewpoint is augmented with a situated and embodied perspective on cognition, forming a promising unified theoretical framework for cognitive science broadly construed.
115	connectionism	1992	LIN, LJ	SELF-IMPROVING REACTIVE AGENTS BASED ON REINFORCEMENT LEARNING, PLANNING AND TEACHING	MACHINE LEARNING	To date, reinforcement learning has mostly been studied solving simple learning tasks. Reinforcement learning methods that have been studied so far typically converge slowly. The purpose of this work is thus twofold: 1) to investigate the utility of reinforcement learning in solving much more complicated learning tasks than previously studied, and 2) to investigate methods that will speed up reinforcement learning. This paper compares eight reinforcement learning frameworks: adaptive heuristic critic (AHC) learning due to Sutton, Q-learning due to Watkins, and three extensions to both basic methods for speeding up learning. The three extensions are experience replay, learning action models for planning, and teaching. The frameworks were investigated using connectionism as an approach to generalization. To evaluate the performance of different frameworks, a dynamic environment was used as a testbed. The environment is moderately complex and nondeterministic. This paper describes these frameworks and algorithms in detail and presents empirical evaluation of the frameworks.
116	connectionism	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
117	connectionism	1992	WALDMANN, MR; HOLYOAK, KJ	PREDICTIVE AND DIAGNOSTIC LEARNING WITHIN CAUSAL-MODELS - ASYMMETRIES IN CUE COMPETITION	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Several researchers have recently claimed that higher order types of learning, such as categorization and causal induction. can he reduced to lower order associative learning. These claims are based in part on reports of cue competition in higher order learning. apparently analogous to blocking in classical conditioning. Three experiments are reported in which subjects had to learn to respond on the basis of cues that were defined either as possible causes of a common effect (predictive learning) or as possible effects of a common cause (diagnostic learning). The results indicate that diagnostic and predictive reasoning, far from being identical as predicted by associationistic models. are not even symmetrical. Although cue competition occurs among multiple possible causes during predictive learning, multiple possible effects need not compete during diagnostic learning. The results favor a causal-model theory.
118	connectionism	2003	Hummel, JE; Holyoak, KJ	A symbolic-connectionist theory of relational inference and generalization	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors present a theory of how relational inference and generalization can be accomplished within a cognitive architecture that is psychologically and neurally realistic. Their proposal is a form of symbolic connectionism: a connectionist system based on distributed representations of concept meanings, using temporal synchrony to bind fillers and roles into relational structures. The authors present a specific instantiation of their theory in the form of a computer simulation model, Learning and Inference with Schemas and Analogies (LISA). By using a kind of self-supervised learning, LISA can make specific inferences and form new relational generalizations and can hence acquire new schemas by induction from examples. The authors demonstrate the sufficiency of the model by using it to simulate a body of empirical phenomena concerning analogical inference and relational generalization.
119	connectionism	1993	PRASADA, S; PINKER, S	GENERALIZATION OF REGULAR AND IRREGULAR MORPHOLOGICAL PATTERNS	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Both regular inflectional patterns (walk-walked) and irregular ones (swing-swung) can be applied productively to novel words (e.g. wug-wugged; spling -splung). Theories of generative phonology attribute both generalisations to rules; connectionist theories attribute both to analogies in a pattern associator network; hybrid theories attribute regular (fully predictable default) generalisations to a rule and irregular generalisations to a rote memory with pattern-associator properties. In three experiments and three simulations, we observe the process of generalising morphological patterns in humans and two-layer connectionist networks. Replicating Bybee and Moder (1983), we find that people's willingness to generalise from existing irregular verbs to novel ones depends on the global similarity between them (e.g. spling is readily inflectable as splung, but nist is not inflectable as nust). In contrast, generalisability of the regular suffix does not appear to depend on similarity to existing regular verbs: Regularly suffixed versions of both common-sounding plip and odd-sounding ploamph were reliably produced and highly rated, and the odd-sounding verbs were not rated as having worse past-tense forms, relative to the naturalness of their stems, than common-sounding ones. In contrast, Rumelhart and McClelland's connectionist past-tense model was found to vary strongly in its tendency to supply both irregular and regular inflections to these novel items as a function of their similarity to forms it was trained on, and for the dissimilar forms, successful regular inflection rarely occurred. We suggest that rule-only theories have trouble explaining patterns of irregular generalisations, whereas single-network theories have trouble explaining regular ones; the computational demands of the two kinds of verbs are different, so a modular system is optimal for handling both simultaneously. Evidence from linguistics and psycholinguistics independently calls for such a hybrid, where irregular pairs are stored in a memory system that superimposes phonological forms, fostering generalisation by analogy, and regulars are generated by a default suffix concatenation process capable of operating on any verb, regardless of its sound.
120	connectionism	2000	Gomez, RL; Gerken, L	Infant artificial language learning and language acquisition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The rapidity with which children acquire language is one of the mysteries of human cognition. A view held widely for the past 30 years is that children master language by means of a language-specific learning device. An earlier proposal, which has generated renewed interest, is that children make use of domain-general. associative learning mechanisms. However, our current lack of knowledge of the actual reaming mechanisms involved during infancy makes it difficult to determine the relative contributions of innate and acquired knowledge. A recent approach to studying this problem exposes infants to artificial languages and assesses the resulting learning. In this article, we review studies using this paradigm that have led to a number of exciting discoveries regarding the learning mechanisms available during infancy. These studies raise important issues with respect to whether such mechanisms are general or specific to language, the extent to which they reflect statistical learning versus symbol manipulation, and the extent to which suck mechanisms change with development. The fine-grained characterizations of infant learning mechanisms that this approach permits should result in a better understanding of the relative contributions of, and the dynamic between, innate and learned factors in language acquisition.
121	connectionism	1992	CACIOPPO, JT; BERNTSON, GG	SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGICAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DECADE OF THE BRAIN - DOCTRINE OF MULTILEVEL ANALYSIS	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	The 1990s were declared by Congress to be the "decade of the brain." This declaration is important to all psychologists, not only neuroscientists, because with this declaration come expectations of the cognitive and behavioral sciences generally and because the brain does not exist in isolation but rather is a fundamental component of developing and aging individuals who themselves are mere actors in the larger theater of life. This article examines the importance of a multilevel, integrative approach to the study of mental and behavioral phenomena in the decade of the brain, reviews how this approach highlights the synergistic relationship between theoretical and clinically relevant research, and illustrates how this approach can foster the transition from microtheories to general psychological theories.
122	connectionism	1996	Smith, ER	What do connectionism and social psychology offer each other?	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Social psychologists can benefit from exploring connectionist or parallel distributed processing models of mental representation and process and also can contribute much to connectionist theory in return. Connectionist models involve many simple processing units that send activation signals over connections. At an abstract level, the models can be described as representing concepts (as distributed patterns of activation), operating like schemas to fill in typical values for input information, reconstructing memories based on accessible knowledge rather than retrieving static representations, using flexible and context-sensitive concepts, and computing by satisfying numerous constraints in parallel. This article reviews open questions regarding connectionist models and concludes that social psychological contributions to such topics as cognition-motivation interactions may be important for the development of integrative connectionist models.
123	connectionism	1990	BESNER, D; TWILLEY, L; MCCANN, RS; SEERGOBIN, K	ON THE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN CONNECTIONISM AND DATA - ARE A FEW WORDS NECESSARY	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	0
124	connectionism	1991	POLLACK, JB	THE INDUCTION OF DYNAMIC RECOGNIZERS	MACHINE LEARNING	A higher order recurrent neural network architecture learns to recognize and generate languages after being "trained" on categorized exemplars. Studying these networks from the perspective of dynamical systems yields two interesting discoveries: First, a longitudinal examination of the learning process illustrates a new form of mechanical inference: Induction by phase transition. A small weight adjustment causes a "bifurcation" in the limit behavior of the network. This phase transition corresponds to the onset of the network's capacity for generalizing to arbitrary-length strings. Second, a study of the automata resulting from the acquisition of previously published training sets indicates that while the architecture is not guaranteed to find a minimal finite automaton consistent with the given exemplars, which is an NP-Hard problem, the architecture does appear capable of generating non-regular languages by exploiting fractal and chaotic dynamics. I end the paper with a hypothesis relating linguistic generative capacity to the behavioral regimes of non-linear dynamical systems.
125	connectionism	2003	Albright, A; Hayes, B	Rules vs. analogy in English past tenses: a computational/experimental study	COGNITION	Are morphological patterns learned in the form of rules? Some models deny this, attributing all morphology to analogical mechanisms. The dual mechanism model (Pinker, S., & Prince, A. (1998). On language and connectionism: analysis of a parallel distributed processing model of language acquisition. Cognition, 28, 73-193) posits that speakers do internalize rules, but that these rules are few and cover only regular processes; the remaining patterns are attributed to analogy. This article advocates a third approach, which uses multiple stochastic rules and no analogy. We propose a model that employs inductive learning to discover multiple rules, and assigns them confidence scores based on their performance in the lexicon. Our model is supported over the two alternatives by new "wug test" data on English past tenses, which show that participant ratings of novel pasts depend on the phonological shape of the stem, both for irregulars and, surprisingly, also for regulars. The latter observation cannot be explained under the dual mechanism approach, which derives all regulars with a single rule. To evaluate the alternative hypothesis that all morphology is analogical, we implemented a purely analogical model, which evaluates novel pasts based solely on their similarity to existing verbs. Tested against experimental data, this analogical model also failed in key respects: it could not locate patterns that require abstract structural characterizations, and it favored implausible responses based on single, highly similar exemplars. We conclude that speakers extend morphological patterns based on abstract structural properties, of a kind appropriately described with rules. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
126	connectionism	1997	Burgess, C; Lund, K	Modelling parsing constraints with high-dimensional context space	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning has been a long-standing problem in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. The lack of a model for representing semantic and grammatical knowledge has been a handicap in attempting to model the effects of semantic constraints in human syntactic processing. A computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), is presented with a series of simulations modelling a variety of human empirical results. HAL learns its representations from the unsupervised processing of 300 million words of conversational text. We propose that HAL's high-dimensional context space can be used to (1) provide a basic categorisation of semantic and grammatical concepts, (2) model certain aspects of morphological ambiguity in verbs, and (3) provide an account of semantic context effects in syntactic processing. We propose that the distributed and contextually derived representations that HAL acquires provide a basis for the subconceptual knowledge that can be used in accounting for a diverse set of cognitive phenomena.
127	connectionism	1993	BICKHARD, MH	REPRESENTATIONAL CONTENT IN HUMANS AND MACHINES	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This article focuses on the problem of representational content. Accounting for representational content is the central issue in contemporary naturalism: it is the major remaining task facing a naturalistic conception of the world. Representational content is also the central barrier to contemporary cognitive science and artificial intelligence: it is not possible to understand representation in animals nor to construct machines with genuine representation given current (lack of) understanding of what representation is. An elaborated critique is offered to current approaches to representation, arguing that the basic underlying approach is, at root, logically incoherent, and, thus, that standard approaches are doomed to failure. An alternative model of representation-interactivism-is presented that avoids or solves the problems facing standard approaches. Interactivism is framed by a version of functionalism, and a naturalization of that functionalism completes an outline of a naturalization of representation and representational content.
128	connectionism	1992	STEIN, JF	THE REPRESENTATION OF EGOCENTRIC SPACE IN THE POSTERIOR PARIETAL CORTEX	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is the most likely site where egocentric spatial relationships are represented in the brain. PPC cells receive visual, auditory, somaesthetic, and vestibular sensory inputs; oculomotor, head, limb, and body motor signals; and strong motivational projections from the limbic system. Their discharge increases not only when an animal moves towards a sensory target, but also when it directs its attention to it. PPC lesions have the opposite effect: sensory inattention and neglect. The PPC does not seem to contain a "map" of the location of objects in space but a distributed neural network for transforming one set of sensory vectors into other sensory reference frames or into various motor coordinate systems. Which set of transformation rules is used probably depends on attention, which selectively enhances the synapses needed for making a particular sensory comparison or aiming a particular movement.
129	connectionism	1991	SHAVLIK, JW; MOONEY, RJ; TOWELL, GG	SYMBOLIC AND NEURAL LEARNING ALGORITHMS - AN EXPERIMENTAL COMPARISON	MACHINE LEARNING	Despite the fact that many symbolic and neural network (connectionist) learning algorithms address the same problem of learning from classified examples, very little is known regarding their comparative strengths and weaknesses.  Experiments comparing the ID3 symbolic learning algorithm with the perceptron and backpropagation neural learning algorithms have been performed using five large, real-world data sets.  Overall, backpropagation performs slightly better than the other two algorithms in terms of classification accuracy on new examples, but takes much longer to train.  Experimental results suggest that backpropagation can work significantly better on data sets containing numerical data.  Also analyzed empirically are the effects of (1) the amount of training data, (2) imperfect training examples, and (3) the encoding of the desired outputs.  Backpropagation occasionally outperforms the other two systems when given relatively small amounts of training data.  It is slightly more accurate than ID3 when examples are noisy or incompletely specified.  Finally, backpropagation more effectively utilizes a "distributed" output encoding.
130	connectionism	1990	FODOR, J; MCLAUGHLIN, BP	CONNECTIONISM AND THE PROBLEM OF SYSTEMATICITY - WHY SMOLENSKY SOLUTION DOESNT WORK	COGNITION	0
131	connectionism	2005	Steels, L; Belpaeme, T	Coordinating perceptually grounded categories through language: A case study for colour	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	This article proposes a number of models to examine through which mechanisms a population of autonomous agents could arrive at a repertoire of perceptually grounded categories that is sufficiently shared to allow successful communication. The models are inspired by the main approaches to human categorisation being discussed in the literature: nativism, empiricism, and culturalism. Colour is taken as a case study Although we take no stance on which position is to be accepted as final truth with respect to human categorisation and naming, we do point to theoretical constraints that make each position more or less likely and we make clear suggestions on what the best engineering solution would be. Specifically, we argue that the collective choice of a shared repertoire must integrate multiple constraints, including constraints coining from communication.
132	connectionism	1999	Seidenberg, MS; MacDonald, MC	A probabilistic constraints approach to language acquisition and processing	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article provides an overview of a probabilistic constraints framework for thinking about language acquisition and processing. The generative approach attempts to characterize knowledge of language (i.e., competence grammar) and then asks how this knowledge is acquired and used. Our approach is performance oriented: the goal is to explain how people comprehend and produce utterances and how children acquire this skill. Use of language involves exploiting multiple probabilistic constraints over various types of linguistic and nonlinguistic information. Acquisition is the process of accumulating this information, which begins in infancy. The constraint satisfaction processes that ore central to language use are the same as the bootstrapping processes that provide entry to language for the child. Framing questions about acquisition in terms of models of adult performance unifies the two topics under a set of common principles and has important consequences for arguments concerning language learnability.
133	connectionism	1994	CLARK, A; TORIBIO, J	DOING WITHOUT REPRESENTING	SYNTHESE	Connectionism and classicism, it generally appears, have at least this much in common:  both place some notion of internal representation at the heart of a scientific study of mind.  In recent years, however, a much more radical view has gained increasing popularity.  This view calls into question the commitment to internal representation itself.  More strikingly still, this new wave of anti-representationalism is rooted not in 'armchair' theorizing but in practical attempts to model and understand intelligent, adaptive behavior.  In this paper we first present, and then critically assess, a variety of recent anti-representationalist treatments.  We suggest that so far, at least, the sceptical rhetoric outpaces both evidence and argument.  Some probable causes of this premature scepticism are isolated.  Nonetheless, the anti-representationalist challenge is shown to be both important and progressive insofar as it forces us to see beyond the bare representational/non-representational dichotomy and to recognize instead a rich continuum of degrees and types of representationality.
134	connectionism	1998	Marcus, GF	Rethinking eliminative connectionism	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Humans routinely generalize universal relationships to unfamiliar instances. If we are told "if glork then frum," and "glork," we can infer "frum"; any name that serves as the subject of a sentence can appear as the object of a sentence. These universals are pervasive in language and reasoning. One account of how they are generalized holds that humans possess mechanisms that manipulate symbols and variables; an alternative account holds that symbol-manipulation can be eliminated from scientific theories in favor of descriptions couched in terms of networks of interconnected nodes. Can these "eliminative" connectionist models offer a genuine alternative? This article shows that eliminative connectionist models cannot account for how we extend universals to arbitrary items. The argument runs as follows. First, if these models, as currently conceived, were to extend universals to arbitrary instances, they would have to generalize outside the space of training examples. Next, it is shown that the class of eliminative connectionist models that is currently popular cannot learn to extend universals outside the training space. This limitation might be avoided through the use of an architecture that implements symbol manipulation. (C) 1998 Academic Press.
135	connectionism	2008	Glockner, A; Betsch, T	Modeling option and strategy choices with connectionist networks: Towards an integrative model of automatic and deliberate decision making	JUDGMENT AND DECISION MAKING	We claim that understanding human decisions requires that both automatic and deliberate processes be considered. First, we sketch the qualitative differences between two hypothetical processing systems, an automatic and a deliberate system. Second, we show the potential that connectionism offers for modeling processes of decision making and discuss some empirical evidence. Specifically, we posit that the integration of information and the application of a selection rule are governed by the automatic system. The deliberate system is assumed to be responsible for information search, inferences and the modification of the network that the automatic processes act on. Third, we critically evaluate the multiple-strategy approach to decision making. We introduce the basic assumption of an integrative approach stating that individuals apply an all-purpose rule for decisions but use different strategies for information search. Fourth, we develop a connectionist framework that explains the interaction between automatic and deliberate processes and is able to account for choices both at the option and at the strategy level.
136	connectionism	2002	Atkinson, D	Toward a sociocognitive approach to second language acquisition	MODERN LANGUAGE JOURNAL	This article develops the notion of a sociocognitive perspective on second language acquisition (SLA), proposed as an alternative to the cognitivism pervading the field. By sociocognitive, I mean a view of language and language acquisition as simultaneously occurring and interactively constructed both "in the head" and "in the world." First, I develop a view of language and its acquisition as social phenomena-as existing and taking place for the performance of action in the (socially-mediated) world. Second, I describe the cognitive nature of language and its acquisition, focusing especially on recent developments in connectionism. Third, I introduce sociocognitive views of language and posit a social interpretation of connectionism as bridging the gap between cognition and social action. Fourth, I discuss sociocognitive perspectives on first language acquisition. Fifth, I describe the cognitivist biases of much SLA research, then suggest how sociocognitive approaches can help overcome them. I end by considering implications of the perspective I develop in this paper.
137	connectionism	2010	Mitchell, J; Lapata, M	Composition in Distributional Models of Semantics	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Vector-based models of word meaning have become increasingly popular in cognitive science. The appeal of these models lies in their ability to represent meaning simply by using distributional information under the assumption that words occurring within similar contexts are semantically similar. Despite their widespread use, vector-based models are typically directed at representing words in isolation, and methods for constructing representations for phrases or sentences have received little attention in the literature. This is in marked contrast to experimental evidence (e. g., in sentential priming) suggesting that semantic similarity is more complex than simply a relation between isolated words. This article proposes a framework for representing the meaning of word combinations in vector space. Central to our approach is vector composition, which we operationalize in terms of additive and multiplicative functions. Under this framework, we introduce a wide range of composition models that we evaluate empirically on a phrase similarity task.
138	connectionism	1996	Andrews, S	Lexical retrieval and selection processes: Effects of transposed-letter confusability	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Three experiments investigated performance for words which differ from another word only by the transposition of two letters (e.g., salt, slat). In Experiment 1, high frequency words from transposed-letter (TL) confusable pairs were responded to more slowly than carefully matched control words in both the lexical decision and word naming task. Low frequency TL words were responded to less accurately than control words in the naming but not the lexical decision task. Experiment 2 replicated the naming data of Experiment 1 and also revealed that naming accuracy for TL word targets was reduced when they were preceded by a brief masked presentation of their confusable mate. Experiment 3 provided a third replication of the impaired naming performance for TL target words and demonstrated that the effect was insensitive to concurrent dual task demands. These TL confusability effects provide strong constraints that can contribute to evaluation and specification of current models of visual word recognition. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
139	connectionism	1992	SMITH, EE; LANGSTON, C; NISBETT, RE	THE CASE FOR RULES IN REASONING	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A number of theoretical positions in psychology-including variants of case-based reasoning, instance-based analogy, and connectionist models-maintain that rules are not involved in human reasoning, or at best play a minor role. Other views hold that the use of abstract rules is a core aspect of human reasoning. We propose eight criteria for determining whether or not people use abstract rules in reasoning, and examine evidence relevant to each criterion for several rule systems. We argue that there is substantial evidence that several different inferential rules, including modus ponens, contractual rules, causal rules, and the law of large numbers, are used in solving everyday problems. We discuss the implications for various theoretical positions and consider hybrid mechanisms that combine aspects of instance and rule models.
140	connectionism	2002	Garlick, D	Understanding the nature of the general factor of intelligence: The role of individual differences in neural plasticity as an explanatory mechanism	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The nature of the general factor of intelligence, or g, is examined. This article begins by observing that the finding of a general factor of intelligence appears to be inconsistent with current findings in neuroscience and cognitive science, where specific connections are argued to be critical for different intellectual abilities and the brain is argued to develop these connections in response to environmental stimuli. However, it is then observed that if people differed in neural plasticity, or the ability to adapt their connections to the environment, then those highly developed in one intellectual ability would be highly developed in other intellectual abilities as well. Simulations are then used to confirm that such a pattern would be obtained. Such a model is also shown to account fur many other findings in the field of intelligence that are currently unexplained. A critical period for intellectual development is then emphasized.
141	connectionism	1998	Ellis, NC	Emergentism, connectionism and language learning	LANGUAGE LEARNING	This review summarizes a range of theoretical approaches to language acquisition. It argues that language representations emerge from interactions at all levels from brain to society. Simple learning mechanisms, operating in and across the human systems for perception, motor-action and cognition as they are exposed to language data as part of a social environment, suffice to drive the emergence of complex language representations. Connectionism provides a set of computational tools for exploring the conditions under which emergent properties arise. I present various simulations of emergence of linguistic regularity for illustration.
142	connectionism	1994	KARMILOFFSMITH, A	PRECIS OF BEYOND MODULARITY - A DEVELOPMENTAL PERSPECTIVE ON COGNITIVE SCIENCE	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Beyond modularity attempts a synthesis of Fodor's anticonstructivist nativism and Piaget's antinativist constructivism. Contra Fodor, I argue that: (1) the study of cognitive development is essential to cognitive science, (2) the module/central processing dichotomy is too rigid, and (3) the mind does not begin with prespecified modules; rather, development involves a gradual process of ''modularization.'' Contra Piaget, I argue that: (1) development rarely involves stagelike domain-general change and (2) domain-specific predispositions give development a small but significant kickstart by focusing the infant's attention on proprietary inputs. Development does not stop at efficient learning. A fundamental aspect of human development (''representational redescription'') is the hypothesized process by which information that is in a cognitive system becomes progressively explicit knowledge to that system. Development thus involves two complementary processes of progressive modularization and progressive ''explicitation.'' Empirical findings on the child as linguist, physicist, mathematician, psychologist, and notator are discussed in support of the theoretical framework. Each chapter concentrates first on the initial state of the infant mind/brain and on subsequent domain-specific learning in infancy and early childhood. It then goes on to explore data on older children's problem solving and theory building, with particular focus on evolving cognitive flexibility. Emphasis is placed throughout on the status of representations underlying different capacities and on the multiple levels at which knowledge is stored and accessible. Finally, consideration is given to the need for more formal developmental models, and a comparison is made between representational redescription and connectionist simulations of development. In conclusion, I consider what is special about human cognition by speculating on the status of representations underlying the structure of behavior in other species.
143	connectionism	2007	Gonnerman, LM; Seidenberg, MS; Andersen, ES	Graded semantic and phonological similarity effects in priming: Evidence for a distributed connectionist approach to morphology	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	A considerable body of empirical and theoretical research suggests that morphological structure governs the representation of words in memory and that many words are decomposed into morphological components in processing. The authors investigated an alternative approach in which morphology arises from the interaction of semantic and phonological codes. A series of cross-modal lexical decision experiments shows that the magnitude of priming reflects the degree of semantic and phonological overlap between words. Crucially, moderately similar items produce intermediate facilitation (e.g., lately-late). This pattern is observed for word pairs exhibiting different types of morphological relationships, including suffixed-stem (e.g., teacher-teach), suffixed-suffixed (e.g., saintly-sainthood) and prefixed-stem pairs (preheat-heat). The results can be understood in terms of connectionist models that use distributed representations rather than discrete morphemes.
144	connectionism	1998	MacWhinney, B	Models of the emergence of language	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	Recent work in language acquisition has shown bow linguistic form emerges from the operation of self-organizing systems. The emergentist framework emphasizes ways in which the formal structures of language emerge from the interaction of social patterns, patterns implicit in the input, and pressures arising from general aspects of the cognitive system. Emergentist models have been developed to study the acquisition of auditory and articulatory patterns during infancy and the ways in which the learning of the first words emerges from the linkage of auditory, articulatory and conceptual systems. Neural network models have also been used to study the learning of inflectional markings and basic syntactic patterns, using both neural network modeling and concepts from the study of dynamic systems, it is possible to analyze language learning as the integration of emergent dynamic systems.
145	connectionism	1993	FU, LM	KNOWLEDGE-BASED CONNECTIONISM FOR REVISING DOMAIN THEORIES	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS	Integration of domain theory into empirical learning is important in building a useful learning system in practical domains since the theory is not always perfect and the data is not always adequate. A novel knowledge-based connectionist model referred to as KBCNN for machine learning is presented. In the KBCNN learning model, useful domain attributes and concepts are first identified and linked in a way consistent with initial domain knowledge, and then the links are weighted properly so as to maintain the semantics. Hidden units and additional connections may be introduced into this initial connectionist structure as appropriate. Then, this primitive structure evolves to minimize empirical error. The KBCNN learning model allows the theory learned or revised to be translated into the symbolic rule-based language that describes the initial theory. Thus, a domain theory can be pushed onto the network, revised empirically over time, and decoded in symbolic form. The domain of molecular genetics has been used to demonstrate the validity of the KBCNN learning model and its superiority over related learning methods.
146	connectionism	1991	MCCLOSKEY, M	NETWORKS AND THEORIES - THE PLACE OF CONNECTIONISM IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	0
147	connectionism	2004	Huang, DS	A constructive approach for finding arbitrary roots of polynomials by neural networks	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper proposes a constructive approach for finding arbitrary (real or complex) roots of arbitrary (real or complex) Polynomials by multilayer perceptron network (MLPN) using constrained learning algorithm (CLA), which encodes the a priori information of constraint relations between root moments and coefficients of a polynomial into the usual BP algorithm (BPA). Moreover, the root moment method (RMM) is also simplified into a recursive version so that the computational complexity can be further decreased, which leads the roots of those higher order polynomials to be readily found. In addition, an adaptive learning parameter with the CLA is also proposed in this paper; an initial weight selection method is also given. Finally, several experimental results show that our proposed neural connectionism approaches, with respect to the nonneural ones, are more efficient and feasible in finding the arbitrary roots of arbitrary polynomials.
148	connectionism	1992	RAAIJMAKERS, JGW; SHIFFRIN, RM	MODELS FOR RECALL AND RECOGNITION	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	0
149	connectionism	1997	Clark, A; Thornton, C	Trading spaces: Computation, representation, and the limits of uninformed learning	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Some regularities enjoy only an attenuated existence in a body of training data. These are regularities whose statistical visibility depends on some systematic recoding of the data. The space of possible recodings is, however, infinitely large - its is the space of applicable Turing machines. As a result, mappings that pivot on such attenuated regularities cannot, in general, be found by brute-force search. The class of problems that present such mappings we call the class of ''type-2 problems''. Type-1 problems, by contrast, present tractable problems of search insofar as the relevant regularities can be found by sampling the input data as originally coded. Type-2 problems, we suggest, present neither rare nor pathological cases. They are rife in biologically realistic setting sand in domains ranging from simple animat (simulated animal or autonomous robot) behaviors to language acquisition. Not only are such problems rife - they are standardly solved! This presents a puzzle. How, given the statistical intractability of these type-2 cases, does nature turn the trick? One answer, which we do not pursue, is to suppose that evolution gifts us with exactly the right set of recoding biases so as to reduce specific type-2 problems to (tractable) type-1 mappings. Such a heavy-duty nativism is not doubt sometimes plausible. But we believe there are other, more general mechanisms also at work. Such mechanisms provide general (not task-specific) strategies for managing problems of type-2 complexity. Several such mechanisms are investigated. At the heart of each is a fundamental poly - namely, the maximal exploitation of states of representation already achieved by prior, simpler (type-1) learning so as to reduce the amount of subsequent computational search. Such exploitation both characterizes and helps make unitary sense of a diverse range of mechanisms. These include simple incremental learning (Elman 1993), modular connectionism (Jacobs et al. 1991), and the developmental hypothesis of ''representational redescription'' (Karmiloff-Smith 1979; 1992). In addition, the most distinctive features of human cognition - language and culture - may themselves be viewed as adaptations enabling this representation/computation trade-off to be pursued on an even grander scale.
150	connectionism	2009	Bowers, JS	On the Biological Plausibility of Grandmother Cells: Implications for Neural Network Theories in Psychology and Neuroscience	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A fundamental claim associated with parallel distributed processing (PDP) theories of cognition is that knowledge is coded in a distributed manner in mind and brain. This approach rejects the claim that knowledge is coded in a localist fashion, with words, objects, and simple concepts (e.g. "dog"). that is, coded with their own dedicated representations. One of the putative advantages of this approach is that the theories are biologically plausible. Indeed, advocates of the PDP approach often highlight the close parallels between distributed representations learned in connectionist models and neural coding in brain and often dismiss localist (grandmother cell) theories as biologically implausible. The author reviews a range a data that strongly challenge this claim and shows that localist models provide a better account of single-cell recording studies. The author also contrast local and alternative distributed coding schemes (sparse and coarse coding) and argues that common rejection of grandmother cell theories in neuroscience is due to a misunderstanding about how localist models behave. The author concludes that the localist representations embedded in theories of perception and cognition are consistent with neuroscience biology only calls into question the distributed representations Often learned in PDP models.
151	connectionism	2003	Anderson, JR; Lebiere, C	The Newell Test for a theory of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Newell (1980; 1990) proposed that cognitive theories be developed in an effort to satisfy multiple criteria and to avoid theoretical myopia. He provided two overlapping lists of 13 criteria that the human cognitive architecture would have to satisfy in order to be functional. We have distilled these into 12 criteria: flexible behavior, real-time performance, adaptive behavior, vast knowledge base, dynamic behavior, knowledge integration, natural language, learning, development, evolution, and brain realization. There would be greater theoretical progress if we evaluated theories by a broad set of criteria such as these and attended to the weaknesses such evaluations revealed. To illustrate how theories can be evaluated we apply these criteria to both classical connectionism (McClelland Rumelhart 1986; Rumelhart & McClelland 1986b) and the ACT-R theory (Anderson & Lebiere 1998). The strengths of classical connectionism on this test derive from its intense effort in addressing empirical phenomena in such domains as language and cognitive development. Its weaknesses derive from its failure to acknowledge a symbolic level to thought. In contrast, ACT-R includes both symbolic and subsymbolic components. The strengths of the ACT-R theory derive from its tight integration of the symbolic component with the subsymbolic component. Its weaknesses largely derive from its failure, as yet, to adequately engage in intensive analyses of issues related to certain criteria on Newell's list.
152	connectionism	1999	Munte, TF; Say, T; Clahsen, H; Schiltz, K; Kutas, M	Decomposition of morphologically complex words in English: evidence from event-related brain potentials	COGNITIVE BRAIN RESEARCH	To explain processing differences between regular (e.g., start/started) and irregular (e.g., think/thought) word formation linguistic models posit either a single mechanism handling both morphological clusters or separate mechanisms for regular and irregular words. The purpose of the present study is to investigate how these processing differences map onto brain processes by assessing electrophysiological effects of English past tense forms, using the repetition priming paradigm. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 59 scalp sites as 19 subjects read stem forms of regular and irregular verbs from a List of 1152 words; the stem forms were either preceded (5-9 intervening items) by their past tense forms (= primed condition) or by past tense forms of unrelated verbs (= unprimed condition). The difference between the ERPs to the primed and unprimed stems was taken as a measure of morphological priming. We found that the ERPs to regular verbs were clearly different from those to irregular verbs: the former were associated with an N400 reduction in the primed condition; primed irregular verb stems, however, showed no such effect. Control conditions demonstrated that the N400 modulation for regular verbs cannot be attributed to formal (i.e., phonological or orthographical) priming. These ERP effects indicate that regular verbs serve as more powerful primes for their corresponding stem forms than irregular past tense forms, suggesting that regular (but not irregular) past tense forms may be decomposed into stem plus affix. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
153	connectionism	1994	SEIDENBERG, MS; PLAUT, DC; PETERSEN, AS; MCCLELLAND, JL; MCRAE, K	NONWORD PRONUNCIATION AND MODELS OF WORD RECOGNITION	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Nonword pronunciation is a form of generalization behavior that has been at the center of debates about models of word recognition, the role of rules in explaining behavior, and the adequacy of the parallel distributed processing approach. An experiment yielded data concerning the pronunciation of a large corpus of nonwords. The data were then used to assess 2 models of naming: a model developed by D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland (1993), which is similar to the one described by M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland (1989) but uses improved orthographic and phonological representations, and the grapheme-phoneme correspondence rules of M. Coltheart, B. Curtis, P. Atkins, and M. Haller's (1993) dual-route model. Both models generate plausible nonword pronunciations and match subjects' responses accurately. The dual-route model does so by using rules that generate correct output for most words but mispronounce a significant number of exceptions. The parallel distributed processing model does so by finding a set of weights that allow it to generate correct output for both ''rule-governed'' items and exceptions. Some ways in which the two approaches differ and other issues facing them are also discussed.
154	connectionism	2003	Spencer, JP; Schoner, G	Bridging the representational gap in the dynamic systems approach to development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	We describe the relationship between the dynamic systems approach to development and a recent approach to the dynamics of representational states - the dynamic field approach. Both approaches share an emphasis on the concepts of stability (attractor states), instability (especially bifurcations), soft-assembly and flexibility. But the dynamic field approach adds the concept of activation' to capture the strength with which behaviorally relevant information is specified. By explicitly linking these dynamic systems approaches, we allow for more direct comparisons between dynamic systems theory and connectionism. We note three current differences between these two approaches to development: (1) the notion of stability is central to how representational states are conceptualized in the dynamic field approach; (2) the dynamic field approach is more directly concerned with the sensorimotor origins of cognition; and (3) the dynamic approach is less advanced with regard to learning. We conclude that proponents of the two approaches can learn from the respective strengths of each approach. We suspect these differences will largely disappear in the next 20 years.
155	connectionism	1999	Meltzoff, AN	Origins of theory of mind, cognition and communication	JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION DISORDERS	There has been a revolution in our understanding of infant and toddler cognition that promises to have far-reaching implications for our understanding of communicative and linguistic development. Four empirical findings that helped to prompt this change in theory are analyzed: (a) Intermodal coordination-newborns operate with multimodal information, recognizing equivalences in information across sensory-modalities; (b) Imitation-newborns imitate the lip and tongue movements they see others perform; (c) Memory-young infants form long-lasting representations of perceived events and use these memories to generate motor productions after lengthy delays in novel contexts; (d) Theory of mind-by 18 months of age toddlers have adopted a theory of mind, reading below surface behavior to the goals and intentions in people's actions. This paper examines three views currently being offered in the literature to replace the classical framework of early cognitive development: modularity-nativism connectionism, and theory-theory. Arguments are marshaled to support the "theory-theory" view. This view emphasizes a combination of innate structure and qualitative reorganization in children's thought based on input from the people and things in their culture. It is suggested that preverbal cognition forms a substrate for language acquisition and that analyzing cognition may enhance our understanding of certain disorders of communication. (C) 1999 by Elsevier Science Inc.
156	connectionism	2001	Solomon, KO; Barsalou, LW	Representing properties locally	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Theories of knowledge such as feature lists, semantic networks, and localist neural nets typically use a single global symbol to represent a property that occurs in multiple concepts. Thus, a global symbol represents maize across HORSE, PONY, and LION. Alternatively, perceptual theories of knowledge, as well as distributed representational systems, assume that properties take different local forms in different concepts. Thus, different local forms of inane exist for HORSE, PONY, and LION, each capturing the specific form that inane takes in its respective concept. Three experiments used the property verification task to assess whether properties are represented globally or locally (e.g., Does a PONY have mane?). If a single global form represents a property, then verifying it in any concept should increase its accessibility and speed its verification later in any other concept Verifying mane for PONY should benefit as much from having verified mane for LION earlier as from verifying inane for HORSE. If properties are represented locally, however, verifying a property should only benefit from verifying a similar form earlier. Verifying inane for PONY should only benefit from verifying mane for HORSE, not from verifying mane for LION. Findings from three experiments strongly supported local property representation and ruled out the interpretation that object similarity was responsible (e.g., the greater overall similarity between HORSE and PONY than between LION and PONY). The findings further suggest that property representation and verification are complicated phenomena, grounded in sensory-motor simulations. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
157	connectionism	1994	STONE, GO; VANORDEN, GC	BUILDING A RESONANCE FRAMEWORK FOR WORD RECOGNITION USING DESIGN AND SYSTEM PRINCIPLES	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Basic elements of a principle-based approach to model development are presented. The approach is needed to understand the operation of models capable of complex behavior. The use of principles facilitatates both assignment of explanatory credit and blame when testing models and guides refinement of models when they fail. Two types of principles are distinguished: design and system. Design principles relate model behavior to observable human behavior. System principles relate model behavior to assumptions about a model's formal structure (architectural axioms). The use of, and relationship between, such principles is illustrated by building the theoretical framework of resonance (S. Grossberg and G. O. Stone, 1986) through the successive addition of principles.
158	connectionism	1996	Omlin, CW; Giles, CL	Constructing deterministic finite-state automata in recurrent neural networks	JOURNAL OF THE ACM	Recurrent neural networks that are trained to behave like deterministic finite-state automata (DFAs) can show deteriorating performance when tested on long strings. This deteriorating performance can be attributed to the instability of the internal representation of the learned DFA states. The use of a sigmoidal discriminant function together with the recurrent structure contribute to this instability. We prove that a simple algorithm can construct second-order recurrent neural networks with a sparse interconnection topology and sigmoidal discriminant function such that the internal DFA state representations are stable, that is, the constructed network correctly classifies strings of arbitrary length. The algorithm is based on encoding strengths of weights directly into the neural network. We derive a relationship between the weight strength and the number of DFA states for robust string classification. For a DFA with n states and m input alphabet symbols, the constructive algorithm generates a ''programmed'' neural network with O(n) neurons and O(mn) weights. We compare our algorithm to other methods proposed in the literature.
159	connectionism	1997	Thimm, G; Fiesler, E	High-order and multilayer perceptron initialization	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	Proper initialization is one of the most important prerequisites for fast convergence of feedforward neural networks like high-order and multilayer perceptrons. This publication aims at determining the optimal variance (or range) for the initial weights and biases, which is the principal parameter of random initialization methods for both types of neural networks, An overview of random weight initialization methods for multilayer perceptrons is presented, These methods are extensively tested using eight real-world benchmark data sets and a broad range of initial weight variances by means of more than 30 000 simulations, in the aim to find the best weight initialization method for multilayer perceptrons. For high-order networks, a large number of experiments (more than 200 000 simulations) was performed, using three weight distributions, three activation functions, several network orders, and the same eight data sets, The results of these experiments are compared to weight initialization techniques for multilayer perceptrons, which leads to the proposal of a suitable initialization method for high-order perceptrons. The conclusions on the initialization methods for both types of networks are justified by sufficiently small confidence intervals of the mean convergence times.
160	connectionism	2005	Bybee, J; Mcclelland, JL	Alternatives to the combinatorial paradigm of linguistic theory based on domain general principles of human cognition	LINGUISTIC REVIEW	It is argued that the principles needed to explain linguistic behavior are domain-general and based on the impact that specific experiences have on the mental organization and representation of language. This organization must be sensitive to both specific information and generalized patterns. In addition, knowledge of language is highly sensitive to frequency of use: frequently-used linguistic sequences become more frequent, more accessible and better integrated. The evidence adduced is mainly from phonology and morphology and addresses the issue of gradience and specificity found in postulated units, categories, and dichotomies such as regular and irregular but the points apply to all levels of linguistic analysis including the syntactic, semantic, and discourse levels. Appropriate models for representing such phenomena are considered, including exemplar models and connectionist models, which are evolving to achieve a better fit with linguistic data. The major criticism of connectionist models often raised from, within the combinatorial paradigm of much existing linguistic theory - that they do not capture free combination' to the extent that rule-based systems do, is regarded as a strength rather than a weakness. Recent connectionist models exhibit greater productivity and systematicity than earlier variants, but still show less uniformity of generalization than combinatorial models do. The remaining non-uniformity that the connectionist models show is appropriate, given that such non-uniformity is the rule in language structure and language behavior.
161	connectionism	2005	Endress, AD; Scholl, BJ; Mehler, J	The role of salience in the extraction of algebraic rules	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Recent research suggests that humans and other animals have sophisticated abilities to extract both statistical dependencies and rule-based regularities from sequences. Most of this research stresses the flexibility and generality of such processes. Here the authors take up an equally important project, namely, to explore the limits of such processes. As a case study for rule-based generalizations, the authors demonstrate that only repetition-based structures with repetitions at the edges of sequences (e.g., ABCDEFF but not ABCDDEF) can be reliably generalized, although token repetitions can easily be discriminated at both sequence edges and middles. This finding suggests limits on rule-based sequence learning and new interpretations of earlier work alleging rule learning in infants. Rather than implementing a computerlike, formal process that operates over all patterns equally well, rule-based learning may be a highly constrained and piecemeal process driven by perceptual primitives-specialized type operations that are highly sensitive to perceptual factors.
162	connectionism	1999	O'Brien, G; Opie, J	A connectionist theory of phenomenal experience	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	When cognitive scientists apply computational theory to the problem of phenomenal consciousness, as many have been doing recently, there are two fundamentally distinct approaches available. Consciousness is to be explained either in terms of the nature of the representational vehicles the brain deploys or in terms of the computational processes defined over these vehicles. We call versions of these two approaches vehicle and process theories of consciousness, respectively. However, although there may be space for vehicle theories of consciousness in cognitive science, they are relatively rare. This is because of the influence exerted, on the one hand, by a large body of research that purports to show that the explicit representation of information in the brain and conscious experience are dissociable, and on the other, by the classical computational theory of mind - the theory that takes human cognition to be a species of symbol manipulation. Two recent developments in cognitive science combine to suggest that a reappraisal of this situation is in order. First, a number of theorists have recently been highly critical of the experimental methodologies used in the dissociation studies - so critical, in fact, that it is no longer reasonable to assume that the dissociability of conscious experience and explicit representation has been adequately demonstrated. Second, classicism, as a theory of human cognition, is no longer as dominant in cognitive science as it once was. It now has a lively competitor in form of connectionism; and connectionism, unlike classicism, does not have the computational resources to support a robust vehicle theory of consciousness. In this target article we develop and defend this connectionist vehicle theory of consciousness. It takes the form of the following simple empirical hypothesis: phenomenal experience consists of the explicit representation of information in neurally realized parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks. This hypothesis leads us to reassess some common wisdom about consciousness, but, we argue, in fruitful and ultimately plausible ways.
163	connectionism	2009	Pater, J	Weighted Constraints in Generative Linguistics	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Harmonic Grammar (HG) and Optimality Theory (OT) are closely related formal frameworks for the study of language. In both, the structure of a given language is determined by the relative strengths of a set of constraints. They differ in how these strengths are represented: as numerical weights (HG) or as ranks (OT). Weighted constraints have advantages for the construction of accounts of language learning and other cognitive processes, partly because they allow for the adaptation of connectionist and statistical models. HG has been little studied in generative linguistics, however, largely due to influential claims that weighted constraints make incorrect predictions about the typology of natural languages, predictions that are not shared by the more popular OT. This paper makes the case that HG is in fact a promising framework for typological research, and reviews and extends the existing arguments for weighted over ranked constraints.
164	connectionism	2001	Friston, KJ; Price, CJ	Dynamic representations and generative models of brain function	BRAIN RESEARCH BULLETIN	The main point made in this article is; that the representational capacity and inherent function of any neuron, neuronal population or cortical area is dynamic and! context-sensitive. This adaptive rand contextual specialisation is mediated by functional integration or interactions among brain systems with a special emphasis on backwards or top-down connections. The critical notion is that neuronal responses, in any given cortical area, can represent different things at different times, Our argument is developed under the perspective of generative models of functional brain architectures, where higher-level systems provide a prediction of the inputs to lower-level regions. Conflict between the two is resolved by changes in the higher-level representations, driven by the resulting error in lower regions, until the mismatch is 'cancelled', In this model the specialisation of any region is determined both by bottom-up driving inputs and by top-down predictions. Specialisation is therefore not an intrinsic property of any region but depends on both forward and backward connections with other areas. Because these other areas have access to the context in which the inputs are generated they are in a position to modulate the selectivity or specialisation of lower areas. The implications for 'classical' models (e,g., classical receptive fields in electrophysiology, classical specialisation in neuroimaging and connectionism in cognitive models) are severe and suggest these models provide incomplete accounts of real brain architectures, Generative models represent a far more plausible framework for understanding selective neurophysiological responses and how representations are constructed in the brain. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Inc.
165	connectionism	2000	Markman, AB; Dietrich, E	In defense of representation	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The computational paradigm, which has dominated psychology and artificial intelligence since the cognitive revolution, has been a source of intense debate. Recently, several cognitive scientists have argued against this paradigm, not by objecting to computation, but rather by objecting to the notion of representation. Our analysis of these objections reveals that it is not the notion of representation per se that is causing the problem, but rather specific properties of representations as they are used in various psychological theories. Our analysis suggests that all theorists accept the idea that cognitive processing involves internal information-carrying states that mediate cognitive processing. These mediating states are a superordinate category of representations. We discuss five properties that can he added to mediating states and examine their importance in various cognitive models. Finally, three methodological lessons are drawn from our analysis and discussion. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
166	connectionism	1992	POSNER, MI; CARR, TH	LEXICAL ACCESS AND THE BRAIN - ANATOMICAL CONSTRAINTS ON COGNITIVE MODELS OF WORD RECOGNITION	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	Recent studies in the cognitive psychology of reading and many other skilled performances have been dominated by models inspired by neural connectivity (e.g., McClelland & Rumelhart, 1986). Such models have not yet begun to consider the accumulating evidence of considerable anatomical localization of component cognitive operations in the human brain (e.g., Posner, Petersen, Fox, & Raichle, 1988). In this article we apply anatomical findings to the job of building computational models of visual word recognition. Brain imaging studies already provide important constraints on how lexical access should be defined in terms of isolable encoding operations that compute the visual form, phonology, and semantics of words. Brain imaging studies also speak to issues of modularity versus interaction between these encoding operations, distribution versus localization of processing within the operations, and orchestration of operations to accomplish different word processing tasks. We conclude that a combined cognitive and anatomical analysis may be of considerable benefit in developing more adequate models of human information processing.
167	connectionism	2005	Pinker, S	So how Does the mind work ?	MIND & LANGUAGE	In my book How the Mind Works, I defended the theory that the human mind is a naturally selected system of organs of computation. Jerry Fodor claims that 'the mind doesn't work that way'(in a book with that title) because (1) Turing Machines cannot duplicate humans' ability to perform abduction (inference to the best explanation); (2) though a massively modular system could succeed at abduction, such a system is implausible on other grounds; and (3) evolution adds nothing to our understanding of the mind. In this review I show that these arguments are flawed. First, my claim that the mind is a computational system is different from the claim Fodor attacks (that the mind has the architecture of a Turing Machine); therefore the practical limitations of Turing Machines are irrelevant. Second, Fodor identifies abduction with the cumulative accomplishments of the scientific community over millennia. This is very different from the accomplishments of human common sense, so the supposed gap between human cognition and computational models may be illusory. Third, my claim about biological specialization, as seen in organ systems, is distinct from Fodor's own notion of encapsulated modules, so the limitations of the latter are irrelevant. Fourth, Fodor's arguments dismissing of the relevance of evolution to psychology are unsound.
168	connectionism	2003	Thelen, E; Bates, E	Connectionism and dynamic systems: are they really different?	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	We propose that connectionism and dynamic systems theory are strong contenders for a general theory of development that holds true whatever the content domain. We illustrate, through our own career narratives, the origins of these theories in motor and language development. We situate connectionism and dynamic systems among other classic and contemporary theories and conclude that, although there are meaningful differences, these differences pale in relation to the shared assumptions about the fundamental processes and mechanisms of change.
169	connectionism	1992	ALEXANDER, GE; DELONG, MR; CRUTCHER, MD	DO CORTICAL AND BASAL GANGLIONIC MOTOR AREAS USE MOTOR PROGRAMS TO CONTROL MOVEMENT	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Prevailing engineering-inspired theories of motor control based on sequential/algorithmic or motor-programming models are difficult to reconcile with what is known about the anatomy and physiology of the motor areas. This is partly because of certain problems with the theories themselves and partly because of features of the cortical and basal ganglionic motor circuits that seem ill-suited for most engineering analyses of motor control. Recent developments in computational neuroscience offer more realistic, that is, connectionist, models of motor processing. The distributed, highly parallel, and nonalgorithmic processes in these models are inherently, self-organizing and hence more plausible biologically than their more traditional algorithmic or motor-programming counterparts. The newer models also have the potential to explain some of the unique features of natural, brain-based motor behavior and to avoid some of the computational dilemmas associated with engineering approaches.
170	connectionism	2001	Hurley, S	Perception and action: Alternative views	SYNTHESE	A traditional view of perception and action makes two assumptions: that the causal flow between perception and action is primarily linear or one-way, and that they are merely instrumentally related to each other, so that each is a means to the other. Either or both of these assumptions can be rejected. Behaviorism rejects the instrumental but not the one-way aspect of the traditional view, thus leaving itself open to charges of verificationism. Ecological views reject the one-way aspect but not the instrumental aspect of the traditional view, so that perception and action are seen as instrumentally interdependent. It is argued here that a better alternative is to reject both assumptions, resulting in a two-level interdependence view in which perception and action co-depend on dynamically circular subpersonal relations and as a result may be more than merely instrumentally interdependent. This is illustrated by reference to motor theories of perception and control theories of action.
171	connectionism	1998	Andrews, S; Scarratt, DR	Rule and analogy mechanisms in reading nonwords: Hough Dou Peapel Rede Gnew Wirds?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	In Experiment 1, participants read a long list of nonwords and made ratings of pronunciation variability. Experiment 2 compared speeded naming of nonwords presented alone or mixed with words. In both experiments, at least 85% of nonwords based on inconsistent word bodies were pronounced according to spelling-sound rules, but regular pronunciations were assigned to only 30-40% of nonwords with no regular word-body neighbors. Contradicting the prediction of parallel-distributed-processing models of nonword naming, the probability of an irregular pronunciation was a function of the proportion of irregular word neighbors, not the frequency of these neighbors. The dual-route cascade model overestimated the proportion of regular nonword pronunciations but successfully predicted the particular nonwords most likely to be pronounced irregularly. These results highlight the issues that must be addressed in future refinements of models of nonword naming.
172	connectionism	1987	SCHNEIDER, W	CONNECTIONISM - IS IT A PARADIGM SHIFT FOR PSYCHOLOGY	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS INSTRUMENTS & COMPUTERS	0
173	connectionism	1998	Marcus, GF	Can connectionism save constructivism?	COGNITION	Constructivism is the Piagetian notion that learning leads the child to develop new types of representations. For example, on the Piagetian view, a child is born without knowing that objects persist in time even when they are occluded; through a process of learning, the child comes to know that objects persist in time. The trouble with this view has always been the lack of a concrete, computational account of how a learning mechanism could lead to such a change. Recently, however, in a book entitled Rethinking Innateness, Elman et al. (Elman, J.L., Bates, E., Johnson, M.H., Karmiloff-Smith. A., Parisi, D., Plunkett, E;., 1996. Rethinking Innateness: A Connectionist Perspective on Development. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press) have claimed that connectionist models might provide an account of the development of new kinds of representations that would not depend on the existence of innate representations. I show that the models described in Rethinking Innateness depend on innately assumed representations and that they do not offer a genuine alternative to nativism. Moreover, I present simulation results which show that these models are incapable of deriving genuine abstract representations that are not presupposed. I then give a formal account of why the models fail to generalize in the ways that humans do. Thus, connectionism, at least in its current form, does not provide any support for constructivism. I conclude by sketching a possible alternative. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
174	connectionism	1997	Jansen, BRJ; vanderMaas, HLJ	Statistical test of the rule assessment methodology by latent class analysis	DEVELOPMENTAL REVIEW	A problem of Siegler's (1981) rule assessment methodology is that the assignment of subjects to rules takes place by an arbitrary criterion. This problem can be solved by latent class analysis by which we can test statistically how many rules are needed to fit the data and which these rules are. Two data sets of the balance scale test are analyzed, The first empirical data set stems from a study of Van Maanen, Been Bi Sijtsma (1989) and consists of 484 subjects in Grade 7 and Grade 8. The second data set is derived from the simulation of the PDP model of McClelland (1989). According to McClelland and Jenkins (1991), this connectionistic model simulates the saltatory acquisition of rules for tasks like the balance scale. The fit of the latent class models to the empirical data shows that rules can be found, that some are different from the ones Siegler proposes, that the correct rule is not acquired by the subjects in this sample, and that the rules in the transitional period are difficult to identify. The latent class models do not fit the PDP data, indicating that the behavior of the PDP model can not be characterized by rules. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
175	connectionism	1997	Berent, I; Shimron, J	The representation of Hebrew words: Evidence from the obligatory contour principle	COGNITION	The Hebrew root morpheme typically consists of three consonants. Hebrew allows a gemination of a root consonant, but constrains its location [McCarthy, J. (1979). Formal problems in semitic phonology and morphology. Cambridge, MA; MTT Ph.D. dissertation. Distributed by Indiana University Linguistics Club. Garland Press, New York, 1985], A gemination of a root-consonant is permitted at the end of the root (e.g., [mss]), but not at its beginning (e.g., [ssm]). Two experiments examined readers' sensitivity to the structure of the root morpheme by obtaining ratings for nonwords derived from nonroots. Root-initial gemination (e.g., [ssm]) was judged unacceptable compared to root-final gemination (e.g., [mss]) or no gemination controls (e.g., [psm]). The sensitivity to root structure emerged regardless of the position of the root in the word. These results have several implications. (I) Our findings demonstrate morphological decomposition. Hebrew speakers' ratings reflect a phonological constraint on the location of geminates. Being the domain of this constraint, the root morpheme must form a separate constituent in the representation of Hebrew words. (2) The rejection of root-initial gemination supports the psychological reality of the Obligatory Contour Principle, a pivotal constraint in autosegmental phonology. (3) A sensitivity to the location of geminates presupposes a distinction between the representation of geminate and nongeminate bigrams. Such a distinction, however, requires the implementation of a symbol. Our findings converge with numerous linguistic evidence in suggesting that the representation of constituency structure is necessary to account for linguistic generalizations. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.
176	connectionism	1993	LEWANDOWSKY, S	THE REWARDS AND HAZARDS OF COMPUTER-SIMULATIONS	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Although computer simulations and other modeling tools have assumed a pivotal role in cognitive psychology, their utility continues to be questioned by some psychologists. This article presents several examples that illustrate both rewards and potential hazards associated with the simulation approach. Simulations can provide the formal framework necessary to disambiguate new ideas, they can explore the implications of complex models, and they can predict seemingly counterintuitive findings or uncover hidden relationships. At the same time, care must be taken to avoid pitfalls that may arise when computer code inadvertently differs from the intended specifications of a theory, or when predictions derive not from fundamental properties of a theory but from pragmatic choices made by the modeler.
177	connectionism	1993	FREYD, JJ	5 HUNCHES ABOUT PERCEPTUAL PROCESSES AND DYNAMIC REPRESENTATIONS	ATTENTION AND PERFORMANCE	0
178	connectionism	2005	Shanahan, M; Baars, B	Applying global workspace theory to the frame problem	COGNITION	The subject of this article is the frame problem, as conceived by certain cognitive scientists and philosophers of mind, notably Fodor for whom it stands as a fundamental obstacle to progress in cognitive science. The challenge is to explain the capacity of so-called informationally unencapsulated cognitive processes to deal effectively with information from potentially any cognitive domain without the burden of having to explicitly sift the relevant from the irrelevant. The paper advocates a global workspace architecture, with its ability to manage massively parallel resources in the context of a serial thread of computation, as an answer to this challenge. Analogical reasoning is given particular attention, since it exemplifies informational unencapsulation in its most extreme form. Because global workspace theory also purports to account for the distinction between conscious and unconscious information processing, the paper advances the tentative conclusion that consciousness may go hand-in-hand with a solution to the frame problem in the biological brain. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
179	connectionism	2010	Glockner, A; Betsch, T; Schindler, N	Coherence Shifts in Probabilistic Inference Tasks	JOURNAL OF BEHAVIORAL DECISION MAKING	The fast-and-frugal heuristics approach to probabilistic inference assumes that individuals often employ simple heuristics to integrate cue information that commonly function in a non-reciprocal fashion. Specifically, the subjective validity of a certain cue remains stable during the application of a heuristic and is not changed by the presence or absence of another cue. The parallel constraint satisfaction (PCS) model, in contrast, predicts that information is processed in a reciprocal fashion. Specifically, it assumes that subjective cue validities interactively affect each other and are modified to coherently support the favored choice. Corresponding to the model's simulation, we predicted the direction and the size of such coherence shifts. Cue validities were measured before, after (Experiment 1), and during judgment (Experiments 2 and 3). Coherence shifts were found in environments involving real-world cue knowledge (weather forecasts) and in a domain for which the application of fast-and-frugal heuristics has been demonstrated (city-size tasks). The results indicate that subjective cue validities are not fixed parameters, but that they are interactively changed to form coherent representations of the task. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
180	connectionism	2003	Beretta, A; Campbell, C; Carr, TH; Huang, J; Schmitt, LM; Christianson, K; Cao, Y	An ER-fMRI investigation of morphological inflection in German reveals that the brain makes a distinction between regular and irregular forms	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The hypothesis that morphological processing is supported by a mental dictionary of stored entries plus a set of mental computations based on rules is examined using event-related fMRI. If a rules-plus-memory model (Pinker, 1999) reflects the actual organization of the language faculty, two distinct patterns of brain activation should be observed for production of German irregular and regular noun and verb inflections. If a connectionist alternative to the rules-and-memory model (Rumelhart & McClelland, 1986, and many others since), which seeks to explain the production of both irregular and regular forms within a single associative memory mechanism, is correct, there should be no neural differentiation between German regular and irregular inflection. The results we report support the existence of substantially differing patterns of activation for regulars vs. irregulars, an outcome that is consistent with the two-component rules-plus-memory account. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
181	connectionism	2000	Hahn, U; Nakisa, RC	German inflection: Single route or dual route?	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The German plural system has recently become a focal point for conflicting theories of language, both linguistic and cognitive. Marcus tt al. (1995) highlight the German plural as support for the dual-route account of inflectional morphology first proposed by Pinker and colleagues (Pinker & Prince, 1988). On the dual-route account, inflectional morphology is universally subserved by a symbolic rule route which deals with regular inflection and an associative memory component which deals with irregular inflection. This contrasts with single-route connectionist systems. We seek to counter supposed evidence for the dual-route account through large-scale simulations as well as through experimental data. We argue that, in its current form, the dual-route account is incapable of generating experimental data provided by Marcus et al. (1995) as support. Finally, we provide direct quantitative comparisons between single-route and dual-route models of German plural inflection and find single-route performance superior on these tests, (C) 2000 Academic Press.
182	connectionism	1992	MURRE, JMJ; PHAF, RH; WOLTERS, G	CALM - CATEGORIZING AND LEARNING MODULE	NEURAL NETWORKS	A new procedure (CALM:  Categorizing and Learning Module) is introduced for unsupervised learning in modular neural networks.  The work described addresses a number of problems in connectionist modeling, such as lack of speed, lack of stability, inability to learn either with or without supervision, and the inability to both discriminate between and generalize over patterns.  CALM is a single module that can be used to construct larger networks.  A CALM module consists of pairs of excitatory Representation- and inhibitory Veto-nodes, and an Arousal-node.  Because of the fixed internal wiring pattern of a module, the Arousal-node is sensitive to the novelty of the input pattern.  The activation of the Arousal-node determines two psychologically motivated types of learning operating in the module:  elaboration learning, which implies a high learning rate and the distribution of nonspecific, random activations in the module, and activation learning, which has only base rate learning without random activations.  The learning rule used is a modified version of a rule described by Grossberg.  The workings of CALM networks are illustrated in a number of simulations.  It is shown that a CALM module quickly reaches a categorization, even with new patterns.  Though categorization and learning are relatively fast compared to other models, CALM modules do not suffer from excessive plasticity.  They are also shown to be capable of both discriminating between and generalizing over patterns.  When presented with a pattern set exceeding the number of Representation-nodes, similar patterns are assigned to the same node.  Multi-modular simulations showed that with supervised learning an average of 1.6 presentations sufficed to learn the EXOR function.  Moreover, an unsupervised learning version of the McClelland and Rumelhart model successfully simulated a word superiority effect.  It is concluded that the incorporation of psychologically and biologically plausible structural and functional characteristics, like modularity, unsupervised (competitive) learning, and a novelty dependent learning rate, may contribute to solving some of the problems often encountered in connectionist modeling.
183	connectionism	1994	FODOR, J	CONCEPTS - A POTBOILER	COGNITION	An informal, but revisionist, discussion of the role that the concept of a concept plays in recent theories of the cognitive mind. It is argued that the practically universal assumption that concepts are (at least partially) individuated by their roles in inferences is probably mistaken. A revival of conceptual atomism appears to be the indicated alternative.
184	connectionism	2001	Eliasmith, C; Thagard, P	Integrating structure and meaning: a distributed model of analogical mapping	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In this paper we present Drama, a distributed model of analogical mapping that integrates semantic and structural constraints on constructing analogies. Specifically, Drama uses holographic reduced representations (Plate, 1994), a distributed representation scheme, to model the effects of structure and meaning on human performance of analogical mapping. Drama is compared to three symbolic models of analogy (SME, Copycat, and ACME) and one partially distributed model (LISA). We describe Drama's performance on a number of example analogies and assess the model in terms of neurological and psychological plausibility. We argue that Drama's successes are due largely to integrating structural and semantic constraints throughout the mapping process. We also claim that Drama is an existence proof of using distributed representations to model high-level cognitive phenomena. (C) 2001 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
185	connectionism	1993	SEIDENBERG, MS	CONNECTIONIST MODELS AND COGNITIVE THEORY	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Connectionist models have come to play an important role in cognitive science and in cognitive neuroscience, yet their role in explaining behavior is not necessarily obvious and has generated considerable debate. Connectionism is a body of tools and ideas that can be used in different ways. It can be treated as a form of simulation modeling in which the goal is to implement preexisting theories. In this approach, connectionist models function as a kind of statistical tool, a way of analyzing a complex set of data. Connectionism can also be seen as providing a small set of general theoretical principles that apply in a variety of domains. Construed in this way, it contributes to the development of theories that are explanatory, not merely descriptive.
186	connectionism	1990	SHANKS, DR	CONNECTIONISM AND THE LEARNING OF PROBABILISTIC CONCEPTS	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
187	connectionism	2007	Endress, AD; Dehaene-Lambertz, G; Mehler, J	Perceptual constraints and the learnability of simple grammars	COGNITION	Cognitive processes are often attributed to statistical or symbolic general-purpose mechanisms. Here we show that some spontaneous generalizations are driven by specialized, highly constrained symbolic operations. We explore how two types of artificial grammars are acquired, one based on repetitions and the other on characteristic relations between tones ("ordinal" grammars). Whereas participants readily acquire repetition-based grammars, displaying early electrophysiological responses to grammar violations, they perform poorly with ordinal grammars, displaying no such electrophysiological responses. This outcome is problematic for both general symbolic and statistical models, which predict that both types of grammars should be processed equally easily. This suggests that some simple grammars are acquired using perceptual primitives rather than general-purpose mechanisms; such primitives may be elements of a "toolbox" of specialized computational heuristics, which may ultimately allow constructing a psychological theory of symbol manipulation. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
188	connectionism	1999	Rueckl, JG; Raveh, M	The influence of morphological regularities on the dynamics of a connectionist network	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The effects of morphological regularities on the behavior of connectionist networks were studied by training identical networks on orthographic-semantic mappings that either contained such regularities or did not. Morphological regularities had a substantial impact on both the amount of training needed to learn a mapping and the number of words that could be included in the training see. A variety of analyses demonstrated how morphological regularities structure the organization and componentiality of a network's internal representations. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
189	connectionism	1996	Reynolds, RE; Sinatra, GM; Jetton, TL	Views of knowledge acquisition and representation: A continuum from experience centered to mind centered	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	The purpose of this paper is to provide a framework for discussing five approaches to understanding knowledge acquisition and representation. These approaches are behaviorism, schema theory, social perspective theories, connectionism, and situated cognition. We describe these approaches as lying on a continuum running from an experience-centered view of knowledge acquisition to a mind-centered view, with a more interactive view at the center. All five approaches are explicated in light of this continuum. Specifically, assumptions about knowledge acquisition and representation, the strengths and weaknesses of the approach, and the potential or actual impact on schooling are highlighted for each theory. We suggest that although each of these theories has merit in explaining certain aspects of knowledge acquisition, no approach adequately addresses the issues of consciousness, self-awareness, and self-reflection. Also, we argue that viewing cognitive functioning through the lenses of machine metaphors is never likely to lead to an understanding of these issues. Thus, what is required is a conception that embodies the sophistication of the computer metaphor with the added ability to evolve, feel, and adapt--in short, a biological metaphor.
190	connectionism	1998	Pinker, S	Words and rules	LINGUA	The vast expressive power of language is made possible by two principles: the arbitrary sound-meaning pairing underlying words, and the discrete combinatorial system underlying grammar. These principles implicate distinct cognitive mechanisms: associative memory and symbol-manipulating rules. The distinction may be seen in the difference between regular inflection (e.g., walk-walked), which is productive and open-ended and hence implicates a rule, and irregular inflection (e.g., come-came, which is idiosyncratic and closed and hence implicates individually memorized words. Nonetheless, two very different theories have attempted to collapse the distinction; generative phonology invokes minor rules to generate irregular as well as regular forms, and connectionism invokes a pattern associator memory to store and retrieve regular as well as irregular forms. I present evidence from three disciplines that supports the traditional word/rule distinction, though with an enriched conception of lexical memory with some of the properties of a pattern-associator Rules, nonetheless, are distinct from pattern-association, because a rule concatenates a suffix to a symbol for verbs, so it does not require access to memorized verbs or their sound patterns, but applies as the 'default', whenever memory access fails. I present a dozen such circumstances, including novel, unusual-sounding, and rootless and headless derived words, in which people inflect the words regularly (explaining quirks like Pied out, low-lifes, and Walkmans). A comparison of English to other languages shows that contrary to the connectionist account, default suffixation is not due to numerous regular words reinforcing a pattern in associative memory, but to a memory-independent, symbol-concatenating mental operation.
191	connectionism	1993	GLUCK, MA; GRANGER, R	COMPUTATIONAL MODELS OF THE NEURAL BASES OF LEARNING AND MEMORY	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE	0
192	connectionism	2003	Dietrich, E; Markman, AB	Discrete thoughts: Why cognition must use discrete representations	MIND & LANGUAGE	Advocates of dynamic systems have suggested that higher mental processes are based on continuous representations. In order to evaluate this claim, we first define the concept of representation, and rigorously distinguish between discrete representations and continuous representations. We also explore two important bases of representational content. Then, we present seven arguments that discrete representations are necessary for any system that must discriminate between two or more states. It follows that higher mental processes require discrete representations. We also argue that discrete representations are more influenced by conceptual role than continuous representations. We end by arguing that the presence of discrete representations in cognitive systems entails that computationalism (i.e., the view that the mind is a computational device) is true, and that cognitive science should embrace representational pluralism.
193	connectionism	2002	Burzio, L	Missing players: Phonology and the past-tense debate	LINGUA	The proposition that the mental lexicon is a 'dual route' system, advanced by Pinker and others to account for regular and irregular morphology, overlooks the important fact that morphological regularity correlates inversely with phonological regularity - 'regular' past-tense beeped being phonologically irregular (exceptional syllable), while 'irregular' past-tense kept is phonologically just regular. I argue that the correlation, which is general, can only be captured under a single - rather than 'dual' - architecture, and an associational - rather than rule based - theory of morphology. Where word-to-word associations are strong, morphology looks regular and phonological alternations are inhibited, making phonology look irregular. In a system in which regularities are attributed to 'rules', rules should be able to coexist with other rules, and morphological and phonological regularities should correlate directly, rather than inversely. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
194	connectionism	1995	BULLINARIA, JA; CHATER, N	CONNECTIONIST MODELING - IMPLICATIONS FOR COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	We review here the logic of neuropsychological inference in the context of connectionist modelling, focusing on the inference from double dissociation to modularity of function. The results of an investigation into the effects of damage on a range of small artificial neural networks that have been trained to perform two distinct mappings (rules vs exceptions), suggest that a double dissociation is possible without modularity. However, when these studies are repeated using sufficiently larger and more distributed networks, which are presumably more psychologically and biologically relevant, double dissociations are not observed. Further analysis suggests that double dissociation between performance on rule-governed and exceptional items is only found when the contribution of individual units to the overall network performance is significant, and hence that such double dissociations are merely artefacts of scale. In large, fully distributed systems, a wide range of damage produces only a single dissociation in which the main regularities are selectively preserved. Thus, in this context, connectionism appears to create no additional problems for the traditional neuropsychological inference.
195	connectionism	2008	Leech, R; Mareschal, D; Cooper, RP	Analogy as relational priming: A developmental and computational perspective on the origins of a complex cognitive skill	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The development of analogical reasoning has traditionally been understood in terms of theories of adult competence. This approach emphasizes structured representations and structure mapping. In contrast, we argue that by taking a developmental perspective, analogical reasoning can be viewed as the product of a substantially different cognitive ability - relational priming. To illustrate this, we present a computational (here connectionist) account where analogy arises gradually as a by-product of pattern completion in a recurrent network. Initial exposure to a situation primes a relation that can then be applied to a novel situation to make an analogy. Relations are represented as trans formations between states. The network exhibits behaviors consistent with a broad range of key phenomena from the developmental literature, lending support to the appropriateness of this approach (using low-level cognitive mechanisms) for investigating a domain that has normally been the preserve of high-level models. Furthermore, we present an additional simulation that integrates the relational priming mechanism with deliberative controlled use of inhibition to demonstrate how the framework can be extended to complex analogical reasoning, such as the data from explicit mapping studies in the literature on adults. This account highlights how taking a developmental perspective constrains the theory construction and cognitive modeling processes in a way that differs substantially from that based purely on adult studies, and illustrates how a putative complex cognitive skill can emerge out of a simple mechanism.
196	connectionism	2004	Davis, CJ; Bowers, JS	What do letter migration errors reveal about letter position coding in visual word recognition?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Dividing attention across multiple words occasionally results in misidentifications whereby letters apparently migrate between words. Previous studies have found that letter migrations preserve within-word letter position, which has been interpreted as support for position-specific letter coding. To investigate this issue, the authors used word pairs like STEP and SOAP, in which a letter in 1 word could migrate to an adjacent letter in another word to form an illusory word (STOP). Three experiments show that both same-position and adjacent-position letter migrations can occur, as well as migrations that cross 2 letter positions. These results argue against position-specific letter coding schemes used in many computational models of reading, and they provide support for coding schemes based on relative rather than absolute letter position.
197	connectionism	2002	Legate, JA; Yang, CD	Empirical re-assessment of stimulus poverty arguments	LINGUISTIC REVIEW	It is a fact that the child learner does not entertain logically possible but empirically impossible linguistic hypotheses, despite the absence of sufficient disconfirming evidence. While Pullum and Scholz claim to have shown the existence of disconfirming evidence, they fail to demonstrate its sufficiency. By situating the acquisition problem in a quantitative and comparative framework, we show that the evidence is, after all, insufficient. Hence the argument from the poverty of stimulus, and the innateness of linguistic knowledge, stand unchallenged.
198	connectionism	2004	Gow, DW; Im, AM	A cross-linguistic examination of assimilation context effects	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Language-specific phonological processes routinely affect the pronunciation of words spoken in context, but do not appear to interfere with spoken word recognition. Five experiments are presented in which native and non-speakers of Hungarian and Korean monitored for segments in assimilated and non-assimilated control contexts related to language-specific assimilation phenomena in those languages. Native and non-speakers of Hungarian showed similar context effects related to Hungarian voicing assimilation in Experiments 1 and 2. In Experiments 3-5 native and non-speakers of Korean showed no context effects related to Korean labial-to-velar place assimilation. These results contrast with significant context effects related to Korean coronal place assimilation shown in Experiment 5. The results suggest that these context effects rely on perceptual mechanisms that interact with the acoustic characteristics of phonological modification rather than mechanisms driven by language-specific knowledge operating at an abstract phonological level. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
199	connectionism	1992	ALLEN, PA; MCNEAL, M; KVAK, D	PERHAPS THE LEXICON IS CODED AS A FUNCTION OF WORD-FREQUENCY	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	0
200	connectionism	1996	Raijmakers, MEJ; van Koten, S; Molenaar, PCM	On the validity of simulating stagewise development by means of PDP networks: Application of catastrophe analysis and an experimental test of rule-like network performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article addresses the ability of Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) networks to generate stagewise cognitive development in accordance with Piaget's theory of cognitive epigenesis. We carried out a replication study of the simulation experiments by McClelland (1989) and McClelland and Jenkins (1991) in which a PDP network learns to solve balance scale problems. In objective tests motivated from catastrophe theory, a mathematical theory of transitions in epigenetical systems, no evidence for stage transitions in network performance was found. It is concluded that PDP networks lock the ability to recover the positive outcomes of analogous catastrophe analyses of real cognitive developmental date. In an attempt to further characterize the learning behaviour of PDP networks, we carried out a second simulation study using the discrimination-shift paradigm. The results thus obtained indicate that PDP learning is compatible with the learning of stimulus-response relationships, not with the acquisition of mediating rules such as conceived in (neo-)Piagetian theory. In closing, we speculate about the feasibility of simulating stagewise development with alternative network architectures.
201	connectionism	1996	Williams, JMG; Mathews, A; MacLeod, C	The emotional stroop task and psychopathology	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Attentional bias is a central feature of many cognitive theories of psychopathology. One of the most frequent methods of investigating such bias has been an emotional analog of the Stroop task. In this task, participants name the colors in which words are printed, and the words vary in their relevance to each theme of psychopathology. The authors review research showing that patients are often slower to name the color of a word associated with concerns relevant to their clinical condition. They address the causes and mechanisms underlying the phenomenon, focusing on J. D. Cohen, K. Dunbar, and J. L. McClelland's (1990) parallel distributed processing model.
202	connectionism	1990	COHEN, JD; DUNBAR, K; MCCLELLAND, JL	ON THE CONTROL OF AUTOMATIC PROCESSES - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT OF THE STROOP EFFECT	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	0
203	connectionism	1993	COLTHEART, M; CURTIS, B; ATKINS, P; HALLER, M	MODELS OF READING ALOUD - DUAL-ROUTE AND PARALLEL-DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACHES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	It has often been argued that various facts about skilled reading aloud cannot be explained by any model unless that model possesses a dual-route architecture (lexical and nonlexical routes from print to speech). This broad claim has been challenged by Seidenberg and McClelland (1989, 1990). Their model has but a single route from print to speech, yet, they contend, it can account for major facts about reading that have hitherto been claimed to require a dual-route architecture. The authors identify 6 of these major facts about reading. The 1-route model proposed by Seidenberg and McClelland can account for the first of these but not the remaining 5. Because models with dual-route architectures can explain all 6 of these basic facts about reading, the authors suggest that this remains the viable architecture for any tenable model of skilled reading and learning to read. The dual-route cascaded model, a computational version of the dual-route model, is described.
204	connectionism	1991	VALENTINE, T	A UNIFIED ACCOUNT OF THE EFFECTS OF DISTINCTIVENESS, INVERSION, AND RACE IN FACE RECOGNITION	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	A framework is outlined in which individual faces are assumed to be encoded as a point in a multidimensional space, defined by dimensions that serve to discriminate faces. It is proposed that such a framework can account for the effects of distinctiveness, inversion, and race on recognition of faces. Two specific models within this framework are identified:  a norm-based coding model, in which faces are encoded as vectors from a population norm or prototype; and a purely exemplar-based model. Both models make similar predictions, albeit in different ways, concerning the interactions between the effects of distinctiveness, inversion and race. These predictions were supported in five experiments in which photographs of faces served as stimuli. The norm-based coding version and the exemplar-based version of the framework cannot be distinguished on the basis of the experiments reported, but it is argued that a multidimensional space provides a useful heuristic framework to investigate recognition of faces. Finally, the relationship between the specific models is considered and an implementation in terms of parallel distributed processing is briefly discussed.
205	connectionism	1988	PINKER, S; PRINCE, A	ON LANGUAGE AND CONNECTIONISM - ANALYSIS OF A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL OF LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	COGNITION	0
206	connectionism	2004	Rogers, TT; Ralph, MAL; Garrard, P; Bozeat, S; McClelland, JL; Hodges, JR; Patterson, K	Structure and deterioration of semantic memory: A neuropsychological and computational investigation	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Wernicke (1900, as cited in G. H. Eggert, 1977) suggested that semantic knowledge arises from the interaction of perceptual representations of objects and words. The authors present a parallel distributed processing implementation of this theory, in which semantic representations emerge from mechanisms that acquire the mappings between visual representations of objects and their verbal descriptions. To test the theory, they trained the model to associate names, verbal descriptions, and visual representations of objects. When its inputs and outputs are constructed to capture aspects of structure apparent in attribute-norming experiments, the model provides an intuitive account of semantic task performance. The authors then used the model to understand the structure of impaired performance in patients with selective and progressive impairments of conceptual knowledge. Data from 4 well-known semantic tasks revealed consistent patterns that find a ready explanation in the model. The relationship between the model and related theories of semantic representation is discussed.
207	connectionism	2001	Haberly, LB	Parallel-distributed processing in olfactory cortex: New insights from morphological and physiological analysis of neuronal circuitry	CHEMICAL SENSES	A working hypothesis is proposed for piriform cortex (PC) and other olfactory cortical areas that redefines the traditional functional roles as follows: the olfactory bulb serves as the primary olfactory cortex by virtue of encoding 'molecular features' (structural components common to many odorant molecules) as a patchy mosaic reminiscent of the representation of simple features in primary visual cortex. The anterior olfactory cortex (that has been inappropriately termed the anterior olfactory nucleus) detects and stores correlations between olfactory features, creating representations (gestalts) for particular odorants and odorant mixtures. This function places anterior olfactory cortex at the level of secondary visual cortex. PC carries out functions that have traditionally defined association cortex-it detects and learns correlations between olfactory gestalts formed in anterior olfactory cortex and a large repertoire of behavioral, cognitive and contextual information to which it has access through reciprocal connections with prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal and amygdaloid areas. Using principles derived from artificial networks with biologically plausible parallel-distributed architectures and Hebbian synaptic plasticity (i.e. adjustments in synaptic strength based on locally convergent activity), functional proposals are made for PC and related cortical areas. Architectural features incorporated include extensive recurrent connectivity in anterior PC, predominantly feedforward connectivity in posterior PC and backprojections that connect distal to proximal structures in the cascade of olfactory cortical areas. Capabilities of the 'reciprocal feedforward correlation' architecture that characterizes PC and adjoining higher-order areas are discussed in some detail. The working hypothesis is preceded by a review of relevant anatomy and physiology, and a non-quantitative account of parallel-distributed principles. To increase the accessibility of findings for PC and to advertise its substantial potential as a model for experimental and modeling analysis of associative processes, parallels are described between PC and the hippocampal formation, inferotemporal visual cortex and prefrontal cortex.
208	connectionism	1999	Peterson, BS; Skudlarski, P; Gatenby, JC; Zhang, HP; Anderson, AW; Gore, JC	An fMRI study of Stroop word-color interference: Evidence for cingulate subregions subserving multiple distributed attentional systems	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: The goal of this study was to model the functional connectivity of the neural systems that subserve attention and impulse control. Proper performance of the Stroop Word-Color Interference Task requires both attention and impulse control. Methods: Word-color interference was studied in 34 normal adult subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results: inter-regional correlation analyses suggested that the anterior cingulate is coupled functionally with multiple regions throughout the cerebrum. A factor analysis of the significant regional activations further emphasized this functional coupling. The cingulate or related mesial frontal cortices loaded on each of the seven factors identified in the factor analysis. Other regions that loaded significantly on on these factors have been described previously as belonging to anatomically connected circuits believed to subserve sensory tuning, receptive language, vigilance, working memory, response selection motor planning, and motor response functions. These seven factors appeared to be oriented topographically within the anterior cingulate, with sensory, working memory, and vigilance functions planning, and motor response positioned progressively more caudally. Conclusions: These findings support a parallel distributed processing model for word-color interference in which portions of the anterior cingulate cortex modify the strengths of multiple neural pathways used to read and name colors. Allocation of attentional resources is thought to modify pathway strengths by reducing cross-talk between information processing modules that subserve the competing demands of reading and color naming. The functional topography of these neural systems observed within the cingulate argues for the presence of multiple attentional subsystems, each contributing to improved task performance. The topography also suggests a role for the cingulate in coordinating and integrating the activity of these multiple attentional subsystems. Biol Psychiatry 1999;45:1237-1258 (C) 1999 Society of Biological Psychiatry.
209	connectionism	1995	Carter, CS; Mintun, M; Cohen, JD	Interference and facilitation effects during selective attention: An (H2O)-O-15 PET study of Stroop task performance	NEUROIMAGE	To investigate the functional anatomy of interference and facilitation during selective attention, we studied 15 normal subjects using the (H2O)-O-15 positron emission tomography technique and a computer presented single-trial Stroop task for cognitive activation. Increases in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were observed in a network of structures that have been previously associated with selective attention, including the anterior cingulate gyrus, the frontal polar cortex, the inferior parietal lobule, and the thalamus, as well as the lingual gyrus. Furthermore rCBF decreases (compared to control states) were observed in lateral extra-striate cortex. rCBF changes in prefrontal and extra-striate regions varied with differences in the need to modulate the influence of word and color information while subjects responded to either incongruent or congruent Stroop stimuli. These results indicate the utility of Stroop procedures for investigating the functional anatomy of selective attention, Given recent interest regarding the role of the anterior cingulate gyrus in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, our results also suggest that the Stroop task can serve as a reliable neurobehavioral probe for this region. The significance of these results for understanding processing mechanisms underlying selective attention is discussed within the framework of a parallel distributed processing model of Stroop task performance. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
210	connectionism	1992	MARCUS, GF; PINKER, S; ULLMAN, M; HOLLANDER, M; ROSEN, TJ; XU, F	OVERREGULARIZATION IN LANGUAGE-ACQUISITION	MONOGRAPHS OF THE SOCIETY FOR RESEARCH IN CHILD DEVELOPMENT	Children extend regular grammatical patterns to irregular words, resulting in overregularizations like comed, often after a period of correct performance ("U-shaped development"). The errors seem paradigmatic of rule use, hence bear on central issues in the psychology of rules: how creative rule application interacts with memorized exceptions in development, how overgeneral rules are unlearned in the absence of parental feedback, and whether cognitive processes involve explicit rules or parallel distributed processing (connectionist) networks. We remedy the lack of quantitative data on overregularization by analyzing 11,521 irregular past tense utterances in the spontaneous speech of 83 children. Our findings are as follows. (1) Overregularization errors are relatively rare (median 2.5% of irregular past tense forms), suggesting that there is no qualitative defect in children's grammars that must be unlearned. (2) Overregularization occurs at a roughly constant low rate from the 2s into the school-age years, affecting most irregular verbs. (3) Although overregularization errors never predominate, one aspect of their purported U-shaped development was confirmed quantitatively: an extended period of correct performance precedes the first error. (4) Overregularization does not correlate with increases in the number or proportion of regular verbs in parental speech, children's speech, or children's vocabularies. Thus, the traditional account in which memory operates before rules cannot be replaced by a connectionist alternative in which a single network displays rotelike or rulelike behavior in response to changes in input statistics. (5) Overregularizations first appear when children begin to mark regular verbs for tense reliably (i.e., when they stop saying Yesterday I walk). (6) The more often a parent uses an irregular form, the less often the child overregularizes it. (7) Verbs are protected from overregularization by similar-sounding irregulars, but they are not attracted to overregularization by similar-sounding regulars, suggesting that irregular patterns are stored in an associative memory with connectionist properties, but that regulars are not. We propose a simple explanation. Children, like adults, mark tense using memory (for irregulars) and an affixation rule that can generate a regular past tense form for any verb. Retrieval of an irregular blocks the rule, but children's memory traces are not strong enough to guarantee perfect retrieval. When retrieval fails, the rule is applied, and overregularization results.
211	connectionism	2003	McClelland, JL; Rogers, TT	The parallel distributed processing approach to semantic cognition	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	How do we know what properties something has, and which of its properties should be generalized to other objects? How is the knowledge underlying these abilities acquired, and how is it affected by brain disorders? Our approach to these issues is based on the idea that cognitive processes arise from the interactions of neurons through synaptic connections. The knowledge in such interactive and distributed processing systems is stored in the strengths of the connections and is acquired gradually through experience. Degradation of semantic knowledge occurs through degradation of the patterns of neural activity that probe the knowledge stored in the connections. Simulation models based on these ideas capture semantic cognitive processes and their development and disintegration, encompassing domain-specific patterns of generalization in young children, and the restructuring of conceptual knowledge as a function of experience.
212	connectionism	1990	GLOOR, P	EXPERIENTIAL PHENOMENA OF TEMPORAL-LOBE EPILEPSY - FACTS AND HYPOTHESES	BRAIN	Experiential phenomena that occur in temporal lobe seizures and can be reproduced by electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures typically encompass perceptual, mnemonic and affective features, either in combination or in isolation, which commonly relate to the patient's individual past experience.  These phenomena raise interesting questions concerning brain mechanisms involved in human psychophysiology.  The anatomical substrates for the evocation of these phenomena are widely distributed within the temporal lobe and include temporal isocortex and limbic structures (amygdala, hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus). Arguments are presented which indicate that experiential phenomena are positive expressions of temporal lobe and limbic function and do not result from its ictal paralysis.  Recent concepts of parallel distributed processing (Rumelhart and McClelland, 1986) and the importance of parallel distributed cortical networks for higher cognitive functions (Goldman-Rakic, 1988a,b) provide a theoretical framework on which a hypothesis explaining experiential phenomena can be based.  In conformity with these concepts the hypothesis assumes that temporal lobe epileptic discharge or electrical stimulation of temporal lobe structures can induce the elaboration of patterns of excitation and inhibition in widely distributed neuronal networks, some of which are capable of forming a specific matrix representing the substrate of a given experience.  Neuronal networks engaged in parallel distributed processing (1) have the capacity to recreate the totality of a given experience when only a fragment of the network is activated, and (2) they tolerate a great deal of degradation by random inactivation of its components or by interference through random noise without serious loss of information content.  These features are compatible with the assumption that localized epileptic neuronal discharge or electrical stimulation involving some temporal lobe structures could create a matrix representing features of individual experience of the kind activated in the course of temporal lobe seizures.  Such an experience could, up to a certain limit, resist the degrading influence of mounting noise which inevitably must attend seizure discharge.
213	connectionism	1994	COLTHEART, M; RASTLE, K	SERIAL PROCESSING IN READING ALOUD - EVIDENCE FOR DUAL-ROUTE MODELS OF READING	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The authors examined the regularity effect on reading aloud as a function of left-to-right phonemic position of irregularity in low-frequency exception words. Ss named 96 low-frequency exception words categorized into 5 conditions on the basis of the position (1st through 5th) of their Ist irregular grapheme-to-phoneme correspondence (GPC). Latencies and error rates for these words were compared with the rates for 96 matched GPC regular controls. Results showed that the cost of irregularity decreased monotonically over the 5 positions of irregularity. This result is offered as evidence for dual-route models of reading and against parallel distributed processing models of reading.
214	connectionism	2002	Gilbert, SJ; Shallice, T	Task switching: A PDP model	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	When subjects switch between a pair of stimulus-response tasks, reaction time is slower on trial N if a different task was performed on trial N - 1. We present a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that simulates this effect when subjects switch between word reading and color naming in response to Stroop stimuli. Reaction time on "switch trials" can be slowed by an extended response selection process which results from (a) persisting, inappropriate states of activation and inhibition of task-controlling representations and (b) associative learning, which allows stimuli to evoke tasks sets with which they have recently been associated (as proposed by Allport & Wylie, 2000). The model provides a good fit to a large body of empirical data, including findings which have been seen as problematic for this explanation of switch costs, and shows similar behavior when the parameters are set to random values, supporting Allport and Wylie's proposal. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science (USA).
215	connectionism	1996	Smith, ER	What do connectionism and social psychology offer each other?	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Social psychologists can benefit from exploring connectionist or parallel distributed processing models of mental representation and process and also can contribute much to connectionist theory in return. Connectionist models involve many simple processing units that send activation signals over connections. At an abstract level, the models can be described as representing concepts (as distributed patterns of activation), operating like schemas to fill in typical values for input information, reconstructing memories based on accessible knowledge rather than retrieving static representations, using flexible and context-sensitive concepts, and computing by satisfying numerous constraints in parallel. This article reviews open questions regarding connectionist models and concludes that social psychological contributions to such topics as cognition-motivation interactions may be important for the development of integrative connectionist models.
216	connectionism	2003	Albright, A; Hayes, B	Rules vs. analogy in English past tenses: a computational/experimental study	COGNITION	Are morphological patterns learned in the form of rules? Some models deny this, attributing all morphology to analogical mechanisms. The dual mechanism model (Pinker, S., & Prince, A. (1998). On language and connectionism: analysis of a parallel distributed processing model of language acquisition. Cognition, 28, 73-193) posits that speakers do internalize rules, but that these rules are few and cover only regular processes; the remaining patterns are attributed to analogy. This article advocates a third approach, which uses multiple stochastic rules and no analogy. We propose a model that employs inductive learning to discover multiple rules, and assigns them confidence scores based on their performance in the lexicon. Our model is supported over the two alternatives by new "wug test" data on English past tenses, which show that participant ratings of novel pasts depend on the phonological shape of the stem, both for irregulars and, surprisingly, also for regulars. The latter observation cannot be explained under the dual mechanism approach, which derives all regulars with a single rule. To evaluate the alternative hypothesis that all morphology is analogical, we implemented a purely analogical model, which evaluates novel pasts based solely on their similarity to existing verbs. Tested against experimental data, this analogical model also failed in key respects: it could not locate patterns that require abstract structural characterizations, and it favored implausible responses based on single, highly similar exemplars. We conclude that speakers extend morphological patterns based on abstract structural properties, of a kind appropriately described with rules. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
217	connectionism	1991	BALUCH, B; BESNER, D	VISUAL WORD RECOGNITION - EVIDENCE FOR STRATEGIC CONTROL OF LEXICAL AND NONLEXICAL ROUTINES IN ORAL READING	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The spelling-sound correspondences in written Persian are always consistent, but some of the words include vowels as a fixed part of their spelling (phonologically transparent words), whereas for other words the vowels are typically not specified (phonologically opaque words). Two speeded naming studies show that semantic relatedness and word frequency affect performance (a) on both classes of words when the context excludes nonwords, and (b) affects opaque words but not transparent words when nonwords form part of the context. A further study shows that (a) transparent words yield word frequency effects when nonwords are absent from the context, and (b) the frequency effect disappears when nonwords form part of the context. The data favor a flexible multiple route model of word recognition whose operation is inconsistent with both the orthographic depth hypothesis and the definitional facts of parallel distributed processing.
218	connectionism	1992	COHEN, JD; SERVANSCHREIBER, D; MCCLELLAND, JL	A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACH TO AUTOMATICITY	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	We consider how a particular set of information processing principles, developed within the parallel distributed processing (PDP) framework, can address issues concerning automaticity. These principles include graded, activation-based processing that is subject to attentional modulation; incremental, connection-based learning; and interactivity and competition in processing. We show how simulation models, based on these principles, can account for the major phenomena associated with automaticity, as well as many of those that have been troublesome for more traditional theories. In particular, we show how the PDP framework provides an alternative to the usual dichotomy between automatic and controlled processing and can explain the relative nature of automaticity as well as the fact that seemingly automatic processes can be influenced by attention. We also discuss how this framework can provide insight into the role that bidirectional influences play in processing: that is, how attention can influence processing at the same time that processing influences attention. Simulation models of the Stroop color-word task and the Eriksen response-competition task are described that help illustrate the application of the principles to performance in specific behavioral tasks.
219	connectionism	1992	BESSON, M; KUTAS, M; VANPETTEN, C	AN EVENT-RELATED POTENTIAL (ERP) ANALYSIS OF SEMANTIC CONGRUITY AND REPETITION EFFECTS IN SENTENCES	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	In two experiments, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and cued-recall performance measures were used to examine die consequences of semantic congruity and repetition on the processing of words in sentences. A set of sentences, half of which ended with words that rendered them semantically incongruous, was repeated either once (e.g., Experiment 1) or twice (e.g., Experiment 2). After each block of sentences, subjects were given all of the sentences and asked to recall the missing final words. Repetition benefited the recall of both congruous and incongruous endings and reduced the amplitude and shortened the duration of the N400 component of the ERP more for (1) incongruous than congruous words, (2) open class than closed class words, and (3) low-frequency than high-frequency open class words. For incongruous sentence terminations, repetition increased the amplitude of a broad positive component subsequent to the N400. Assuming additive factors logic and a traditional view of the lexicon, our N400 results indicate that in addition to their singular effects, semantic congruity, repetition, and word frequency converge to influence a common stage of lexical processing. Within a parallel distributed processing framework, our results argue for substantial temporal and spatial overlap in the activation of codes subserving word recognition so as to yield the observed interactions of repetition with semantic congruity, lexical class, and word frequency effects.
220	connectionism	1998	Munakata, Y	Infant perseveration and implications for object permanence theories: A PDP model of the A(B)over-bar task	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	From the earliest ages at which infants search for hidden objects, they make the A (B) over bar error, searching perseveratively at previous rather than current hiding locations (Piaget, 1954). This paper presents a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that instantiates an explicit set of processing mechanisms to account for a large and diverse set of data on infants' A (B) over bar errors. The model demonstrates how basic processes U the formation of latent memory traces and their interaction with developing active memory traces U can provide a unifying framework for understanding why and when infants perseverate. Novel predictions from the model are discussed, together with its challenges for theories that posit a concept of object permanence in the first year of life.
221	connectionism	1993	DELL, GS; JULIANO, C; GOVINDJEE, A	STRUCTURE AND CONTENT IN LANGUAGE PRODUCTION - A THEORY OF FRAME CONSTRAINTS IN PHONOLOGICAL SPEECH ERRORS	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Theories of language production propose that utterances are constructed by a mechanism that separates linguistic content from linguistic structure. Linguistic content is retrieved from the mental lexicon, and is then inserted into slots in linguistic structures or frames. Support for this kind of model at the phonological level comes from patterns of phonological speech errors. W present an alternative account of these patterns using a connectionist or parallel distributed processing (PDP) model that learns to produce sequences of phonological features. The model's errors exhibit some of the properties of human speech errors, specifically, properties that have been attributed to the action of phonological rules, frames, or other structural generalizations.
222	connectionism	1993	KAWAMOTO, AH	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS IN THE RESOLUTION OF LEXICAL AMBIGUITY - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	0
223	connectionism	1996	Hino, Y; Lupker, SJ	Effects of polysemy in lexical decision and naming: An alternative to lexical access accounts	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of polysemy (number of meanings) and word frequency were examined in lexical decision and naming tasks. Polysemy effects were observed in both tasks. In the lexical decision task, high- and low-frequency words produced identical polysemy effects. In the naming task, however, polysemy interacted with frequency, with polysemy effects being limited to low-frequency words. When degraded stimuli were used in both tasks, the interaction appeared not only in naming but also in lexical decision. Because stimulus degradation also produced an effect of spelling-sound regularity in the lexical decision task, the different relationships between polysemy and frequency appear to be due to whether responding was based primarily on orthographic or phonological codes. As such, the effects of polysemy seem to be due to the nature of task-specific processes. An explanation in terms of M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland's (1989) and D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland's (1993) parallel distributed processing models is proposed.
224	connectionism	1993	READ, SJ; MARCUSNEWHALL, A	EXPLANATORY COHERENCE IN SOCIAL EXPLANATIONS - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING ACCOUNT	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article studies the impact of explanatory coherence on the evaluation of explanations. Tested were 4 principles of R Thagard's (1989) model for evaluating the coherence of explanations. Study 1 showed that Ss preferred explanations that accounted for more data (breadth) and that were simpler (simplicity or parsimony). Study 2 demonstrated that Ss thought an explanation was stronger when it could, in turn, be explained. Study 3 showed that the evaluation of explanations is comparative, affected by the availability of good alternatives. These results were then successfully simulated using Thagard's connectionist implementation of his model of explanatory coherence. The data and the simulation, taken together, strongly support the model. Two issues are then discussed: (a) the role of explanatory coherence in social explanation and (b) the relevance of parallel constraint satisfaction processes to social reasoning.
225	connectionism	1999	Johnson, BA; Woo, CC; Hingco, EE; Pham, KL; Leon, M	Multidimensional chemotopic responses to n-aliphatic acid odorants in the rat olfactory bulb	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	In an effort to understand the means by which similar chemical odorants are encoded in the mammalian brain, we exposed rats to a homologous series of n-aliphatic acids and mapped the response of the entire olfactory bulb glomerular layer by using a high-resolution [C-14]-2-deoxyglucose uptake technique. We found that these similar odorants evoked spatially clustered but distinct responses in the bulb that changed systematically with carbon chain length. In addition to these chemotopic responses, different odorants within the series evoked systematic differences along two other dimensions: amount of deoxyglucose uptake and extent of the glomerular layer showing high activity. Increases along these two dimensions also were correlated with increasing carbon number. The focal glomerular responses were mirrored by responses in deeper bulb layers. Decreasing the odorant concentration decreased the deoxyglucose uptake within focal regions. The focal regions of activity occurred in pairs involving both medial and lateral representations in the bulb, perhaps reflecting the paired medial and lateral projections of olfactory sensory neurons expressing specific types of odorant feature receptor proteins. The observed spatial pattern of response also may explain both the failure of some bulb lesions to interfere with behavioral olfactory responses and the success of other lesions in blocking olfactory responses. These data support a model of parallel, distributed processing of odorants along multiple dimensions. They also support the notion that analyses of the spatial relationships among odorant responses in the olfactory bulb can demonstrate aspects of the mechanism for odor chemical coding. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
226	connectionism	1999	Kornblum, S; Stevens, GT; Whipple, A; Requin, J	The effects of irrelevant stimuli: 1. The time course of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response consistency effects with Stroop-like stimuli, Simon-like tasks, and their factorial combinations	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of Simon- and Stroop-like stimuli are examined in isolation and in factorial combinations with different delays between the presentation of the irrelevant and the relevant stimuli. The effects of irrelevant stimuli have different time courses depending on whether they overlap with the relevant stimulus (stimulus-stimulus overlap, Dimensional Overlap [DO] Type 4) or with the response (stimulus-response overlap, DO type 3). A new, computational, parallel distributed processing (PDP)-type model, DO'97, is presented that is based on the original DO model (S. Kornblum, 1994; S. Kornblum, T. Hasbroucq, Br A. Osman, 1990), and it postulates a nonmonotone irrelevant stimulus activation function in addition to 2 temporally ordered, serial, nonindependent stages: a stimulus processing stage and a response production stage. DO'97 is able to simulate the temporal dynamic characteristics of the processes, with good fits to the empirical data. of this study and other published studies, at the level of means, variances, and distributional plots.
227	connectionism	1992	FETZ, EE	ARE MOVEMENT PARAMETERS RECOGNIZABLY CODED IN THE ACTIVITY OF SINGLE NEURONS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	To investigate neural mechanisms of movement, physiologists have analyzed the activity of task-related neurons in behaving animals. The relative onset latencies of neural activity have been scrutinized for evidence of a functional hierarchy of sequentially recruited centers, but experiments reveal that activity changes occur largely in parallel. Neurons whose activity covaries with movement parameters have been sought for evidence of explicit coding of parameters such as active force, limb displacement, and behavioral set. Neurons with recognizable relations to the task are typically selected from a larger population, ignoring those cells with complex relations to the task and unmodulated cells. Selective interpretations are also used to support the notion that different motor regions perform different motor functions, again, current evidence suggests that units with similar properties are distributed over widely different regions. These coding issues are reexamined for premotoneuronal (Pre M) cells, whose correlational links with motoneurons are revealed by spike-triggered averages. Pre M cells are recruited over long times relative to their target muscles, they show diverse response patterns relative to the muscle force they produce, functionally disparate PreM cells such as afferent fibers and descending corticomotoneuronal and rubromotoneuronal cells can exhibit similar patterns. Neural mechanisms have been further elucidated by neural network simulations of sensorimotor behavior, the pre-output hidden units typically show diverse response patterns in relation to their target units. Thus, studies in which both the activity and the connectivity of the same units are known reveal that units with both simple and complex relations to the task contribute significantly to the output. This suggests that the search for explicit coding may be diverting us from understanding distributed neural mechanisms that operate without literal representations.
228	connectionism	2001	Patterson, K; Ralph, MAL; Hodges, JR; McClelland, JL	Deficits in irregular past-tense verb morphology associated with degraded semantic knowledge	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Two distinct mechanisms are often considered necessary to account for generation of the past-tense of English verbs: a lexical associative process For irregular forms like speak --> spoke, and a rule-governed process ('add -ed') for regular and novel forms like talk --> talked and wug --> wugged. An alternative account based on a parallel-distributed processing approach proposes that one complex procedure processes all past-tense types. In this alternative view, neuropsychological dissociations are explained by reduced input from word meaning that plays a greater role in successful generation of the past-tense for lower frequency irregular verbs, and by phonological deficits that disproportionately affect regular and novel forms. Only limited evidence has been available concerning the relationship between knowledge of word meaning and verb-tense processing. The study reported here evaluated the past-tense verb abilities of ii patients with semantic dementia, a neurodegenerative condition characterised by degraded semantic knowledge. We predicted and confirmed that the patients would have essentially normal ability to generate and recognise regular land novel past-tense Forms, bur a marked and frequency-modulated deficit on irregular verbs. Across the set of 11 patients, the degree of impairment for the irregular past-tense was significantly correlated with the degree of comprehension impairment as measured by verb synonym judgements. These results. plus other features of the data such as the nature of the errors to irregular verbs, are discussed in relation to currently developing theories of the language system. (C) 2001 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
229	connectionism	1999	Zhang, HZH; Zhang, J; Kornblum, S	A parallel distributed processing model of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response compatibility	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A parallel distributed processing (PDP) model is proposed to account for choice reaction time (RT) performance in diverse cognitive and perceptual tasks such as the Stroop task, the Simon task, the Eriksen flanker task, and the stimulus-response compatibility task that are interrelated in terms of stimulus-stimulus and stimulus-response overlap (Kornblum, 1992). In multilayered;(input-intermediate-output) networks, neuron-like nodes that represent stimulus and response features are grouped into mutually inhibitory modules that represent stimulus and response dimensions. The stimulus-stimulus overlap is implemented by a convergence of two input modules onto a common intermediate module, and the stimulus-response overlap by direct pathways representing automatic priming of outputs. Mean RTs are simulated in various simple tasks and, furthermore, predictions are generated for complex tasks based on performance in simpler tasks. The match between simulated and experimental results lends strong support for our PDP model of compatibility. (C) 1999 Academic Press.
230	connectionism	1994	KURATA, K	INFORMATION-PROCESSING FOR MOTOR CONTROL IN PRIMATE PREMOTOR CORTEX	BEHAVIOURAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Recent neurophysiological as well as neuropsychological studies provided evidences on how various informations are processed to generate motor programs in the central nervous system. In this article, functional specializations of two distinct cortical motor areas, the dorsal and ventral aspects of the premotor cortex (PMd and PMv, respectively) of macaque monkeys, are focused to review this issue. Three major conclusions emerged from recent neurophysiological studies. First, each of movement parameters such as amplitude and direction is distinctively programmed in PMd by serial integration, rather than by parallel distributed processing. Second, in performance of conditional motor behavior, conditionally presented sensory signals are processed for motor preparation and execution of an intended act in PMd, but not in PMv. Third, PMv may be specialized for motor execution under visual guidance.
231	connectionism	2009	Bowers, JS	On the Biological Plausibility of Grandmother Cells: Implications for Neural Network Theories in Psychology and Neuroscience	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A fundamental claim associated with parallel distributed processing (PDP) theories of cognition is that knowledge is coded in a distributed manner in mind and brain. This approach rejects the claim that knowledge is coded in a localist fashion, with words, objects, and simple concepts (e.g. "dog"). that is, coded with their own dedicated representations. One of the putative advantages of this approach is that the theories are biologically plausible. Indeed, advocates of the PDP approach often highlight the close parallels between distributed representations learned in connectionist models and neural coding in brain and often dismiss localist (grandmother cell) theories as biologically implausible. The author reviews a range a data that strongly challenge this claim and shows that localist models provide a better account of single-cell recording studies. The author also contrast local and alternative distributed coding schemes (sparse and coarse coding) and argues that common rejection of grandmother cell theories in neuroscience is due to a misunderstanding about how localist models behave. The author concludes that the localist representations embedded in theories of perception and cognition are consistent with neuroscience biology only calls into question the distributed representations Often learned in PDP models.
232	connectionism	1994	SEIDENBERG, MS; PLAUT, DC; PETERSEN, AS; MCCLELLAND, JL; MCRAE, K	NONWORD PRONUNCIATION AND MODELS OF WORD RECOGNITION	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Nonword pronunciation is a form of generalization behavior that has been at the center of debates about models of word recognition, the role of rules in explaining behavior, and the adequacy of the parallel distributed processing approach. An experiment yielded data concerning the pronunciation of a large corpus of nonwords. The data were then used to assess 2 models of naming: a model developed by D. C. Plaut and J. L. McClelland (1993), which is similar to the one described by M. S. Seidenberg and J. L. McClelland (1989) but uses improved orthographic and phonological representations, and the grapheme-phoneme correspondence rules of M. Coltheart, B. Curtis, P. Atkins, and M. Haller's (1993) dual-route model. Both models generate plausible nonword pronunciations and match subjects' responses accurately. The dual-route model does so by using rules that generate correct output for most words but mispronounce a significant number of exceptions. The parallel distributed processing model does so by finding a set of weights that allow it to generate correct output for both ''rule-governed'' items and exceptions. Some ways in which the two approaches differ and other issues facing them are also discussed.
233	connectionism	1999	Rodriguez, P; Wiles, J; Elman, JL	A recurrent neural network that learns to count	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Parallel distributed processing (PDP) architectures demonstrate a potentially radical alternative to the traditional theories of language processing that are based on serial computational models. However, learning complex structural relationships in temporal data presents a serious challenge to PDP systems. For example, automata theory dictates that processing strings from a context-free language (CFL) requires a stack or counter memory device. While some PDP models have been hand-crafted to emulate such a device, it is not clear how a neural network might develop such a device when learning a CFL. This research employs standard backpropagation training techniques for a recurrent neural network (RNN) in the task of learning to predict the next character in a simple deterministic CFL (DCFL). We show that an RNN can learn to recognize the structure of a simple DCFL. We use dynamical systems theory to identify how network states reflect that structure by building counters in phase space. The work is an empirical investigation which is complementary to theoretical analyses of network capabilities, yet original in its specific configuration of dynamics involved. The application of dynamical systems theory helps us relate the simulation results to theoretical results, and the learning task enables us to highlight some issues for understanding dynamical systems that process language with counters.
234	connectionism	2007	Rogers, TT; Patterson, K	Object categorization: Reversals and explanations of the basic-level advantage	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	People are generally faster and more accurate to name or categorize objects at the basic level (e.g., dog) relative to more general (animal) or specific (collie) levels, an effect replicated in Experiment I for categorization of object pictures. To some, this pattern suggests a dual-process mechanism, in which objects first activate basic-level categories directly and later engage more general or specific categories through the spread of activation in a processing hierarchy. This account is, however, challenged by data from Experiment 2 showing that neuropsychological patients with impairments of conceptual knowledge categorize more accurately at superordinate levels than at the basic level-suggesting that knowledge about an object's general nature does not depend on prior basic-level categorization. The authors consider how a parallel distributed processing theory of conceptual knowledge can reconcile the apparent discrepancy. This theory predicts that if healthy individuals are encouraged to make rapid categorization responses, the usual basic > general advantage should also reverse, a prediction tested and confirmed in Experiment 3. Implications for theories of visual object recognition are discussed.
235	connectionism	2009	Yan, M; Richter, EM; Shu, H; Kliegl, R	Readers of Chinese extract semantic information from parafoveal words	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Evidence for semantic preview benefit (PB) from parafoveal words has been elusive for reading alphabetic scripts such as English. Here we report semantic PB for noncompound characters in Chinese reading with the boundary paradigm. In addition, PBs for orthographic relatedness and, as a numeric trend, for phonological relatedness were obtained. Results are in agreement with other research suggesting that the Chinese writing system is based on a closer association between graphic form and meaning than is alphabetic script. We discuss implications for notions of serial attention shifts and parallel distributed processing of words during reading.
236	connectionism	1999	O'Brien, G; Opie, J	A connectionist theory of phenomenal experience	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	When cognitive scientists apply computational theory to the problem of phenomenal consciousness, as many have been doing recently, there are two fundamentally distinct approaches available. Consciousness is to be explained either in terms of the nature of the representational vehicles the brain deploys or in terms of the computational processes defined over these vehicles. We call versions of these two approaches vehicle and process theories of consciousness, respectively. However, although there may be space for vehicle theories of consciousness in cognitive science, they are relatively rare. This is because of the influence exerted, on the one hand, by a large body of research that purports to show that the explicit representation of information in the brain and conscious experience are dissociable, and on the other, by the classical computational theory of mind - the theory that takes human cognition to be a species of symbol manipulation. Two recent developments in cognitive science combine to suggest that a reappraisal of this situation is in order. First, a number of theorists have recently been highly critical of the experimental methodologies used in the dissociation studies - so critical, in fact, that it is no longer reasonable to assume that the dissociability of conscious experience and explicit representation has been adequately demonstrated. Second, classicism, as a theory of human cognition, is no longer as dominant in cognitive science as it once was. It now has a lively competitor in form of connectionism; and connectionism, unlike classicism, does not have the computational resources to support a robust vehicle theory of consciousness. In this target article we develop and defend this connectionist vehicle theory of consciousness. It takes the form of the following simple empirical hypothesis: phenomenal experience consists of the explicit representation of information in neurally realized parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks. This hypothesis leads us to reassess some common wisdom about consciousness, but, we argue, in fruitful and ultimately plausible ways.
237	connectionism	1994	COHEN, JD; HUSTON, TA	PROGRESS IN THE USE OF INTERACTIVE MODELS FOR UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION AND PERFORMANCE	ATTENTION AND PERFORMANCE XV: CONSCIOUS AND NONCONSCIOUS INFORMATION PROCESSING	This chapter examines recent work using parallel distributed processing (PDP) models to simulate performance in attentional tasks that has led to new perspectives on the relationship between attention and performance. Phenomenologically, we are interested in two types of effects that can be associated with the operation of attentional mechanisms: the top-down effects of selective attention and the bottom-up effects of attentional capture. Traditionally, these have been treated as separate mechanisms. Here, we show how these can be understood in terms of a common set of mechanisms within the PDP framework.
238	connectionism	2006	Herd, SA; Banich, MT; O'Reilly, RC	Neural mechanisms of cognitive control: an integrative model of stroop task performance and fMRI data	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	We address the connection between conceptual knowledge and cognitive control using a neural network model. This model extends a widely held theory of cognitive control [Cohen, J. D., Dunbar, K., & McClelland, J. L. On the control of automatic processes: A parallel distributed processing model of the Stroop effect. Psychological Review, 97, 332-361, 1990] so that it can explain new empirical findings. Leveraging other computational modeling work, we hypothesize that representations used for task control are recruited from preexisting representations for categories, such as the concept of color relevant to the Stroop task we model here. This hypothesis allows the model to account for otherwise puzzling fMRI results, such as increased activity in brain regions processing to-be-ignored information. In addition, biologically motivated changes in the model's pattern of connectivity show how global competition can arise when inhibition is strictly local, as it seems to be in the cortex. We also discuss the potential for this theory to unify models of task control with other forms of attention.
239	connectionism	1991	MIIKKULAINEN, R; DYER, MG	NATURAL-LANGUAGE PROCESSING WITH MODULAR PDP NETWORKS AND DISTRIBUTED LEXICON	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	An approach to connectionist natural language processing is proposed, which is based on hierarchically organized modular parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks and a central lexicon of distributed input/output representations.  The modules communicate using these representations, which are global and publicly available in the system.  The representations are developed automatically by all networks while they are learning their processing tasks.  The resulting representations reflect the regularities in the subtasks, which facilitates robust processing in the face of noise and damage, supports improved generalization, and provides expectations about possible contexts.  The lexicon can be extended by cloning new instances of the items, that is, by generating a number of items with known processing properties and distinct identities.  This technique combinatorially increases the processing power of the system.  The recurrent FGREP module, together with a central lexicon, is used as a basic building block in modeling higher level natural language tasks.  A single module is used to form case-role representations of sentences from word-by-word sequential natural language input.  A hierarchical organization of four recurrent FGREP modules (the DISPAR system) is trained to produce fully expanded paraphrases of script-based stories, where unmentioned events and role fillers are inferred.
240	connectionism	1997	Ewert, JP	Neural correlates of key stimulus and releasing mechanism: a case study and two concepts	TRENDS IN NEUROSCIENCES	Major themes in neuroethology concern the specificity of key stimuli, neurones tuned to such stimuli, and the release of corresponding behaviour. Neurobiological data from the analysis of visuomotor functions of prey-catching and avoiding in amphibians support the view that retinal outflow in different combinations is pooled for further computation in interacting processing streams, rather than segregated into distinct retinal channels. The keys by which the visual system gets access to perceptual-motor categories are shown to derive from specific computational strategies that evaluate significant configurational features of objects. Rapid behavioural responses are assured by visuomotor pathways which, monitoring different aspects of visual objects, collectively select appropriate motor patterns. Responses can be adapted to varying environmental and internal conditions via modulating and modifying loops. This requires parallel distributed processing and integration at various revels in a macro-network.
241	connectionism	1998	Servan-Schreiber, D; Carter, CS; Bruno, RM; Cohen, JD	Dopamine and the mechanisms of cognition: Part II. D-amphetamine effects in human subjects performing a selective attention task	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: A neural network computer model described in a companion paper predicted the effects of increased dopamine transmission on selective attention under two different hypotheses. Methods: To evaluate these predictions we conducted an empirical study in human subjects of D-amphetamine effects on performance of the Eriksen response competition task. Ten healthy volunteers were rested before and after placebo or D-amphetamine in a double-blind crossover design. Results: D-amphetamine induced a speeding of reaction time overall and an improvement of accuracy at fast reaction times but only in the task condition requiring selective attention. Conclusions: This pattern of results conforms to the prediction of the model under the hypothesis that D-amphetamine primarily affects dopamine transmission in cognitive rather than motor networks. This suggests that the principles embodied in parallel distributed processing models of task performance may be sufficient to predict and explain specific behavioral effects of some drug actions in the central nervous system. (C) 1998 Society of Biological Psychiatry. .
242	connectionism	2000	Stark, CEL; McClelland, JL	Repetition priming of words, pseudowords, and nonwords	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 5 experiments, the authors assessed repetition priming for words, pseudowords, and nonwords using a task that combines an implicit perceptual fluency measure and a recognition memory assessment for each list item. Words and pseudowords generated a consistently strong repetition effect even when there was a failure to recognize the stimulus. In 2 of the experiments, the repetition effect for nonwords was reliably above chance even when there was a failure to recognize the stimulus. The authors propose a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model based on the work of J. McClelland and D. Rumelhart (1985) as a way to understand the mechanisms potentially responsible for the pattern of findings. Although the error-driven nature of learning in the model results in a poor fit to the nonword priming data, this is not endemic to all PDP models. Using a model based on Hebbian learning, the authors instantiate a property that they believe is characteristic of implicit memory-that learning is primarily based on the strengthening of connections between units that become active during the processing of a stimulus. This model provides a far more satisfactory account of the data than does the error-driven model.
243	connectionism	1998	Andrews, S; Scarratt, DR	Rule and analogy mechanisms in reading nonwords: Hough Dou Peapel Rede Gnew Wirds?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	In Experiment 1, participants read a long list of nonwords and made ratings of pronunciation variability. Experiment 2 compared speeded naming of nonwords presented alone or mixed with words. In both experiments, at least 85% of nonwords based on inconsistent word bodies were pronounced according to spelling-sound rules, but regular pronunciations were assigned to only 30-40% of nonwords with no regular word-body neighbors. Contradicting the prediction of parallel-distributed-processing models of nonword naming, the probability of an irregular pronunciation was a function of the proportion of irregular word neighbors, not the frequency of these neighbors. The dual-route cascade model overestimated the proportion of regular nonword pronunciations but successfully predicted the particular nonwords most likely to be pronounced irregularly. These results highlight the issues that must be addressed in future refinements of models of nonword naming.
244	connectionism	2008	Rogers, TT; McClelland, JL	Precis of Semantic Cognition: A Parallel Distributed Processing Approach	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	In this precis of our recent book, Semantic Cognition: A Parallel Distributed Processing Approach (Rogers & McClelland 2004), we present a parallel distributed processing theory of the acquisition, representation, and use of human semantic knowledge. The theory proposes that semantic abilities arise from the flow of activation among simple, processing, neuron-like processing units, as goverend by the strengths of interconnecting weights; and that acqusition of new semantic information involves the gradual adjustment of weights in the system in response to experience. These simple ideas explain a wide range of empirical phenomena from studies of categorization, lexical acquisition, and disordered semantic cognition. In this precis we focus on phenomena central to the reaction against similarity-based theories that arose in the 1980s and that subsequently motivated the "theory-theory" approach to semantic knowledge. Specifically, we consider (1) how concepts differentiate in early development, (2) why some groupings of items seem to form "good" or coherent categories while others do not, (3) why different properties seem central or important to different concepts. (4) why children and adults sometimes attest to beliefs that seem to contradict their direct experience. (5) how concepts reorganize between the ages of 4 and 10, and (6) the relationship between causal knowledge and semantic knowledge. The explanations our for these phenomena are illustrated with reference to a sample feed-forward connectionist model. The relationships between this simple model, the broader theory, and more general issues in cognitive science are discussed.
245	connectionism	2003	Ferrand, L; New, B	Syllabic length effects in visual word recognition and naming	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Two experiments investigated the role of the number of syllables in visual word recognition and naming. Experiment 1 (word and nonword naming) showed that effects of number of syllables on naming latencies were observed for nonwords and very low-frequency words but not for high-frequency words. In Experiment 2 (lexical decision), syllabic length effects were also obtained for very low-frequency words but not for high-frequency words and nonwords. These results suggest that visual word recognition and naming do require syllabic decomposition, at least for very low-frequency words in French. These data are compatible with the multiple-trace memory model for polysyllabic word reading [Psychol. Rev. 105 (1998) 678]. In this model, reading depends on the activity of two procedures: (1) a global procedure that operates in parallel across a letter string (and does not generate a strong syllabic length effect) and that is the predominant process in generating responses to high-frequency words, and (2) an analytic procedure that operates serially across a letter string (and generates a strong syllabic length effect) and that is the predominant process in generating responses to very low-frequency words. A modified version of the dual route cascaded model [Psychol. Rev. 108 (1) (2001) 204] can also explain the present results, provided that syllabic units are included in this model. However, the Parallel Distributed Processing model [Psychol. Rev. 96 (1989) 523; J. Exp. Psychol.: Human Perception Perform. 16 (1990) 92] has difficulties to account for these results. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
246	connectionism	2007	Protopapas, A; Archonti, A; Skaloumbakas, C	Reading ability is negatively related to Stroop interference	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Stroop interference is often taken as evidence for reading automaticity even though young and poor readers, who presumably lack reading automaticity, present strong interference. Here the relationship between reading skills and Stroop interference was studied in a 7th-grade sample. Greater interference was observed in children diagnosed with reading disability (dyslexia) than in unimpaired children. Moreover, poorer reading skills were found to correlate with greater Stroop interference in the general school population. In correlation and regression analyses, interference was primarily associated with reading speed, with an additional unique contribution of reading accuracy. Color naming errors were few and not comparably related to reading skills. The relation of reading skill to Stroop interference was examined in computational modeling simulations. The production model of Roelofs [Roelofs, A. (2003). Goal-referenced selection of verbal action: modeling attentional control in the Stroop task. Psychological Review, 110, 88-125], in which interference is primarily due to word stimuli having direct access to word form encoding whereas color naming must pass through concept activation and lemma selection, was found to account well for the human data after imposing covariation constraints on parameters controlling word processing and blocking latency, in modifications not affecting the model's previous fit to other data. The connectionist model of Cohen, Dunbar, and McClelland [Cohen, J. D., Dunbar, K., & McClelland, J. L. (1990). On the control of automatic processes: a parallel distributed processing account of the Stroop effect. Psychological Review, 97, 332-361], in which interference is caused by differential route strength, implementing an automaticity account, approximated the observed patterns with network-wide parameter manipulations not specific to reading, such as processing speed and response threshold, likely to affect previously optimized performance. On the basis of the empirical and modeling data we argue for a direct link between reading skill and interference, beyond the effects of executive functioning. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
247	connectionism	1998	Servan-Schreiber, D; Bruno, RM; Carter, CS; Cohen, JD	Dopamine and the mechanisms of cognition: Part I. A neural network model predicting dopamine effects on selective attention	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: Dopamine affects neural information processing, cognition, and behavior; however, the mechanisms through which these three levels of function are affected have remained unspecified We present a parallel-distributed processing model of dopamine effects on neural ensembles that accounts for effects on human performance in a selective attention task, Methods: Task performance is stimulated using principles and mechanisms that capture salient aspects of information processing in neural ensembles. Dopamine effects are simulated as a change in gain of neural assemblies in the area of release. Results: The model leads to different predictions as a function of the hypothesized location of dopamine effects. Motor system effects are simulated as a change in gain over the response layer of the model. This induces speeding of reaction times but an impairment of accuracy, Cognitive attentional effects are simulated as a change in gain over the attention layer. This induces a speeding of reaction times and an improvement of accuracy, especially, at very fast reaction times and when processing of the stimulus requires selective attention. Conclusions: A computer simulation using widely accepted principles of processing in neural ensembles can accountfor reaction time distributions and time-accuracy curves in a selective attention task. The simulation can be used to generate predictions about the effects of dopamine agonists on performance. An empirical study evaluating these predictions is described in a companion paper. (C) 1998 Society of Biological Psychiatry.
248	connectionism	1995	McClelland, JL	Constructive memory and memory distortions: A parallel-distributed processing approach	MEMORY DISTORTION: HOW MINDS, BRAINS, AND SOCIETIES RECONSTRUCT THE PAST	0
249	connectionism	1994	JOORDENS, S; BESNER, D	WHEN BANKING ON MEANING IS NOT (YET) MONEY IN THE BANK - EXPLORATIONS IN CONNECTIONIST MODELING	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	A number of reports claim that humans perform lexical decisions faster to words with many meanings than to words with only one meaning.  It is a challenge to simulate this ambiguity effect with a parallel distributed processing model because activation of ambiguous words produces competition at the semantic level; this ought to lead to less rather than more efficient processing of ambiguous words.  Despite this problem, the present simulations show that it is possible to produce an ambiguity effect when the network settles into a learned semantic pattern through use of a proximity factor.  However, competition is not completely countered by proximity as the network fails to settle into a learned semantic pattern for ambiguous words on more than 50% of the trials.  Further simulations show that manipulations that increase the proportion of correct settling result in the loss of this ambiguity effect.  General implications are discussed.
250	connectionism	2000	Hino, Y; Lupker, SJ	Effects of word frequency and spelling-to-sound regularity in naming with and without preceding lexical decision	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The effects of word frequency and spelling-to-sound regularity were examined using standard naming, standard lexical-decision, go/no-go naming, and go/no-go lexical-decision tasks. In both the standard and go/no-go naming tasks, tasks requiring phonological coding, a significant Frequency X Regularity interaction was observed. That is, the regularity effect was limited to low-frequency words. In the standard and go/no-go lexical-decision tasks, tasks not requiring phonological coding, no Frequency X Regularity interaction was observed. These results indicate not only that the Frequency X Regularity interaction is a product of phonological coding processes but also that these processes are similar in the standard and go/no-go naming tasks. Results are discussed in terms of the dual-route and the parallel distributed processing frameworks.
251	connectionism	2000	Cortese, MJ; Simpson, GB	Regularity effects in word naming: What are they?	MEMORY & COGNITION	In a word-naming experiment, word-body consistency was crossed with grapheme-to-phoneme regularity to test predictions of current models of word recognition. In the latency and error data, a clear effect of consistency was observed, with the influence of regularity somewhat weaker. In addition, simulation data from three contemporary models of word recognition were obtained for the stimuli used in the experiment in order to compare the models' latencies with those of humans. The simulations showed that the human latency data are most consistent with the parallel-distributed-processing model of Plaut, McClelland, Seidenberg, and Patterson (1996), less so with the dual-process model (Zorzi, Houghton, & Butterworth, 1998), and least so with the dual-route-cascaded model (Coltheart & Rastle, 1994).
252	connectionism	2001	Nadeau, SE	Phonology: A review and proposals from a connectionist perspective	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	A parallel distributed processing (PDP) model of phonological processing is developed. including component,, to support repetition. auditory processing, comprehension, and language production. From the performance of the PDP reading model of Plaut, McClelland, Seidenberg, and Patterson (1996), it is inferred that the acoustic-articulatory motor pattern associator that supports repetition provides the basis for phonological sequence knowledge. From the observation that many patients make phonemic paraphasic error, in language production, as in repetition, it is argued that there must be a direct link between distributed concept representations (lexical semantic knowledge) and this network representation of sequence knowledge. In this way, both lexical semantic and phonotactic constraints are brought to bear on language production, The literature on phonological function in normal subjects (slip-of-the-tongue corpora) and in patients With aphasia is critically reviewed from this perspective. The relationship between acoustic and articulatory motor representation,,; in the process of phonetic perception is considered. Repetition and reproduction conduction aphasia are reviewed in detail and extended consideration is given to the representation or auditory verbal short-term memory in the model. Finally, the PDP model is reconciled with information processing models of phonological processing, including that of Lichtheim, and with current knowledge of the anatomic localization of phonological processing Although no simulations of the model were run, a number of simulation studies are proposed. (C) Elsevier Science.
253	connectionism	2006	Hino, Y; Pexman, PM; Lupker, SJ	Ambiguity and relatedness effects in semantic tasks: Are they due to semantic coding?	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	According to parallel distributed processing (PDP) models of visual word recognition, the speed of semantic coding is modulated by the nature of the orthographic-to-semantic mappings. Consistent with this idea, an ambiguity disadvantage and a relatedness-of-meaning (ROM) advantage have been reported in some word recognition tasks in which semantic processing is presumed to be required for responding. To further evaluate this idea, we examined ambiguity and ROM effects in lexical decision and semantic categorization tasks. In the lexical decision task, there was an ambiguity advantage but no ROM effect. In the semantic categorization tasks, we used various semantic categories and found a processing time disadvantage for ambiguous words with less related meanings when the decisions were relatively difficult, but observed no effect when the decisions were easier. These results suggest that both the ambiguity disadvantage and the ROM advantage in the semantic categorization tasks are due to decision-making, rather than semantic-coding, processes. The implications of these results for issues concerning the nature of semantic coding and semantic representations are discussed. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
254	connectionism	2006	Zevin, JD; Seidenberg, MS	Simulating consistency effects and individual differences in nonword naming: A comparison of current models	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	The mechanisms underlying nonword pronunciation have a been a focus of debates over dual-route and connectionist models of reading aloud. The present study examined two aspects of nonword naming: spelling-sound consistency effects and variability in the pronunciations assigned to ambiguous nonwords such as MOUP. Performance of a parallel distributed processing model was assessed over multiple runs, representing multiple subjects with varying reading experience. The model provided a good account of behavioral data concerning these phenomena. In contrast, the Dual Route Cascaded model does not produce consistency effects and does not account for the alternative pronunciations that subjects produce. The results highlight the importance of considering multiple aspects of a phenomenon such as nonword naming in assessing computational models. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
255	connectionism	1996	Raijmakers, MEJ; van Koten, S; Molenaar, PCM	On the validity of simulating stagewise development by means of PDP networks: Application of catastrophe analysis and an experimental test of rule-like network performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article addresses the ability of Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) networks to generate stagewise cognitive development in accordance with Piaget's theory of cognitive epigenesis. We carried out a replication study of the simulation experiments by McClelland (1989) and McClelland and Jenkins (1991) in which a PDP network learns to solve balance scale problems. In objective tests motivated from catastrophe theory, a mathematical theory of transitions in epigenetical systems, no evidence for stage transitions in network performance was found. It is concluded that PDP networks lock the ability to recover the positive outcomes of analogous catastrophe analyses of real cognitive developmental date. In an attempt to further characterize the learning behaviour of PDP networks, we carried out a second simulation study using the discrimination-shift paradigm. The results thus obtained indicate that PDP learning is compatible with the learning of stimulus-response relationships, not with the acquisition of mediating rules such as conceived in (neo-)Piagetian theory. In closing, we speculate about the feasibility of simulating stagewise development with alternative network architectures.
256	connectionism	1993	LING, CX; MARINOV, M	ANSWERING THE CONNECTIONIST CHALLENGE - A SYMBOLIC MODEL OF LEARNING THE PAST TENSES OF ENGLISH VERBS	COGNITION	Supporters of eliminative connectionism have argued for a pattern association-based explanation of language learning and language processing. They deny that explicit rules and symbolic representations play any role in language processing and cognition in general. Their argument is based to a large extent on two artificial neural network (ANN) models that are claimed to be able to learn the past tenses of English verbs (Rumelhart & McClelland, 1986, Parallel distributed processing, Vol. 2, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; MacWhinney and Leinbach, 1991, Cognition, 40, 121-157). In this article we critically review Rumelhart and McClelland's as well as MacWhinney and Leinbach's ANN models and conclude that they do not succeed in the assigned task of learning the past tenses of English verbs. In order to answer their challenge to the symbolic processing approach, we present our symbolic pattern associator (SPA) - a general-purpose pattern associator that can learn to associate arbitrary discrete patterns. We carried out several experiments with the SPA using the same set of verbs that was used in MacWhinney and Leinbach's simulation with more realistic training and testing procedures. The SPA outperformed the connectionist models by a wide margin in the accuracy of learning, and successful inductive generalizations to unseen verbs. Our SPA has very natural and psychologically realistic explanations to many psychological effects such as U-shaped learning curve, and is much closer to human subjects in predicting past tenses of the pseudo-verbs. In contrast to ANNs, whose internal representations are entirely opaque, the SPA can represent the acquired knowledge in the form of production rules that allow for further higher-level processing and integration, resulting in linguistically realistic associative templates for irregular verbs and production rules for regular verbs. In the light of these findings, we conclude that eliminative connectionists' vision of cognition as simple pattern association and pattern recognition without symbolic representation is inadequate. Pattern association as such does nor imply rule-less or cue-based models of language acquisition or of human learning in general.
257	connectionism	2009	Atkinson, L; Leung, E; Goldberg, S; Benoit, D; Poulton, L; Myhal, N; Blokland, K; Kerr, S	Attachment and selective attention: Disorganization and emotional Stroop reaction time	DEVELOPMENT AND PSYCHOPATHOLOGY	Although central to attachment theory, internal working models remain a useful heuristic in need of concretization, We compared the selective attention of organized and disorganized mothers using the emotional Stroop task. Both disorganized attachment and emotional Stroop response involve the coordination of strongly conflicting motivations under conditions of emotional arousal. Furthermore, much is known about the cognitive and neuromodulatory correlates of the Stroop that may inform attempts to Substantiate the internal working model construct. We assessed 47 community mother,, with the Adult Attachment Interview and the Working Model of the Child Interview in the third trimester of pregnancy. At 6 aid 12 months postpartum, we assessed mothers with emotional Stroop tasks involving neutral, attachment, and emotion conditions. At 12 months, we observed their infants in the Strange Situation. Results showed that: disorganized attachment is related to relative Stroop reaction time, that is, unlike organized mothers, disorganized mother.,; respond to negative attachment/emotion stimuli more slowly than to neutral stimuli; relative speed of response is positively related to number of times the dyad was classified disorganized, and change in relative Stroop response time from 6 to 12 months is related to the match-mismatch Status of mother and infant attachment classifications. We discuss implications in terms of automatic and controlled processing and, more specifically, cognitive threat tags, parallel distributed processing, and neuromodulation through norepenephrine and dopamine.
258	connectionism	1997	Gibson, FP; Fichman, M; Plaut, DC	Learning in dynamic decision tasks: Computational model and empirical evidence	ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN DECISION PROCESSES	Dynamic decision tasks include important activities such as stock trading, air traffic control, and managing continuous production processes. In these tasks, decision makers may use outcome feedback to learn to improve their performance ''on-line'' as they participate in the task. We have developed a computational formulation to model this learning. Our formulation assumes that decision makers acquire two types of knowledge: (1) How their actions affect outcomes; (2) Which actions to take to achieve desired outcomes. Our formulation further assumes that fundamental aspects of the acquisition of these two types of knowledge can be captured by two parallel distributed processing (neural network) models placed in series. To test our formulation, we instantiate it to learn the Sugar Production Factory (Stanley, Mathews, Buss, & Kotler-Cope, Quart. J. Exp. Psychol., 1989) and then apply its predictions to a human subjects experiment. Our formulation provides a good account of human decision makers' performance during training and two tests of subsequent ability to generalize: (1) answering questions about which actions to take to achieve goals that were not encountered in training; and (2) a new round of performance in the task using one of these new goals. Our formulation provides a less complete account of decision makers' ability after training to predict how prespecified actions affect the factory's performance. Overall, our formulation represents an important step toward a process theory of how decision makers learn on-line from outcome feedback in dynamic decision tasks. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
259	connectionism	1992	PLUNKETT, K; SINHA, C	CONNECTIONISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL THEORY	BRITISH JOURNAL OF DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The main goal of this paper is to argue for an 'epigenetic developmental interpretation' of connectionist modelling of human cognitive processes, and to propose that Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) models provide a superior account of developmental phenomena than that offered by cognitivist (symbolic) computational theories. After comparing some of the general characteristics of epigeneticist and cognitivist theories, we provide a brief overview of the operating principles underlying Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and their associated learning procedures. Four applications of different PDP architectures to developmental phenomena are described. First, we assess the current status of the debate between symbolic and connectionist accounts of the process of English past tense formation. Second, we introduce a connectionist model of concept formation and vocabulary growth and show how it provides an account of aspects of semantic development in early childhood. Next, we take up the problem of compositionality and structure dependency in connectionist nets, and demonstrate that PDP models can be architecturally designed to capture the structural principals characteristic of human cognition. Finally, we review a connectionist model of cognitive development which yields stage-like behavioural properties even though architectural and input assumptions remain constant throughout training. It is shown how the organizational characteristics of the model provide a simple but precise account of the equilibration of the processes of accommodation and assimilation. The article concludes that a coherent epigenetic-developmental interpretation of PDP modelling requires the rejection of so-called hybrid-architecture theories of human cognition.
260	connectionism	2006	Borowsky, R; Besner, D	Parallel distributed processing and lexical-semantic effects in visual word recognition: Are a few stages necessary?	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	D. C. Plaut and J. R. Booth (2000) presented a parallel distributed processing model that purports to simulate human lexical decision performance. This model (and D. C. Plaut, 1995) offers a single mechanism account of the pattern of factor effects on reaction time (RT) between semantic priming, word frequency, and stimulus quality without requiring a stages-of-processing account of additive effects. Three problems are discussed. First, no evidence is provided that this model can discriminate between words and nonwords with the same orthographic structure and still produce the pattern of factor effects on RT it currently claims to produce. Second, the level of representation used by the model to make a lexical decision is inconsistent with what is known about how skilled readers with damage to their semantic system make word/nonword discriminations. Finally, there are a number of results that are difficult to reconcile with the single mechanism account. The authors' preference is to retain the stages-of-processing account.
261	connectionism	2006	Mathey, S; Zagar, D; Doignon, N; Seigneuric, A	The nature of the syllabic neighbourhood effect in French	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	We investigated whether and how sublexical units such as phonological syllables mediate access to the lexicon in French visual word recognition. To do so, two lexical decision task (LDT) experiments examined the nature of the syllabic neighbourhood effect. In Experiments 1a and b, the number of higher frequency syllabic neighbours was manipulated while controlling for the first bigram. The results failed to show a pure syllabic neighbourhood effect. In Experiments 2a and b, syllabic neighbourhood and bigram frequency were factorially manipulated. The interaction showed that the syllabic neighbourhood effect was inhibitory when bigram frequency was high, whereas it was facilitatory when bigram frequency was low. Similar patterns of results were found in both the yes/no (Experiments 1a and 2a) and go/no-go LDTs (Experiments 1b and 2b), so varying task requirements of the lexical decision did not influence the effect. These findings are discussed in the context of parallel distributed processing and interactive-activation models, and suggest that orthographic redundancy properties contribute to the influence of phonological syllables. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
262	connectionism	2010	Plaut, DC; McClelland, JL	Locating Object Knowledge in the Brain: Comment on Bowers's (2009) Attempt to Revive the Grandmother Cell Hypothesis	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	According to Bowers (2009), the finding that there are neurons with highly selective responses to familiar stimuli supports theories positing localist representations over approaches positing the type of distributed representations typically found in parallel distributed processing (PDP) models. However, his conclusions derive from an overly narrow view of the range of possible distributed representations and of the role that PDP models can play in exploring their properties. Although it is true that current distributed theories face challenges in accounting for both neural and behavioral data, the proposed localist account-to the extent that it is articulated at all-runs into more fundamental difficulties. Central to these difficulties is the problem of specifying the set of entities a localist unit represents.
263	connectionism	1998	Cortese, MJ	Revisiting serial position effects in reading	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Contrasting predictions of the dual-route and parallel distributed processing models of word recognition were tested in two experiments that investigated the relationship between position of irregularity and plosivity of initial phoneme. In a naming task (Experiment 1), words irregular at the first phoneme position yielded a larger phonological regularity effect than words irregular at die second phoneme position. In addition, the plosivity of the initial phoneme interacted with regularity. For words irregular at the second phoneme position, a regularity effect was observed for plosive-initial words but not for nonplosive-initial words. However, position interacted with regularity regardless of initial-phoneme plosivity. Regularity effects were eliminated in a lexical decision task (Experiment 2), suggesting that the naming results were due to the phonological characteristics of the stimuli. The results support the predictions made by the dual-route cascaded model of Coltheart and Rastle (1994) and challenge current parallel distributed processing accounts, (C) 1998 Academic Press.
264	connectionism	2000	Peterson, SA; Simon, TJ	Computational evidence for the subitizing phenomenon as an emergent property of the human cognitive architecture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A computational modeling approach was used to test one possible explanation for the limited capacity of the subitizing phenomenon. Most existing models of this phenomenon associate the subitizing span;with an assumed structural limitation of the human information processing system. In contrast, we show how this limit might emerge as the combinatorics of the space of enumeration problems interacts with the human cognitive architecture in the context of an enumeration task. Subitizing-like behavior was generated in two different models of enumeration, one based on the ACT-R cognitive architecture and the other based on the principles of parallel distributed processing (PDP). Our results provide good qualitative fits to results obtained in a variety of empirical studies.
265	connectionism	1994	Tippett, LJ; Farah, MJ	A Computational Model of Naming in Alzheimer's Disease: Unitary or Multiple Impairments?	NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	The predominant explanation for difficulty naming objects in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is impaired semantic memory. Two classes of findings challenge this. The lower the visual quality of the stimulus the less likely AD patients are to name it, suggesting a deficit of visual perception. The lower the name frequency, the less likely AD patients are to name an object, suggesting a deficit of lexical access. A mechanistic explanation is given for why a semantic memory deficit is sufficient to account for this range of data, provided components underlying task performance are interactive. Interactive parallel distributed processing networks were trained to associate visual patterns with semantic and lexical patterns. When semantic units were lesioned, networks were more sensitive to impoverished visual inputs. Networks also made a disproportionate number of errors to items trained with lower frequency and benefited from phonemic cues.
266	connectionism	1993	QUARTZ, SR	NEURAL NETWORKS, NATIVISM, AND THE PLAUSIBILITY OF CONSTRUCTION	COGNITION	Recent interest in PDP (parallel distributed processing) models is due in part to the widely held belief that they challenge many of the assumptions of classical cognitive science. In the domain of language acquisition, for example, there has been much interest in the claim that PDP models might undermine nativism. Related arguments based on PDP learning have also been given against Fodor's anti-constructivist position - a position that has contributed to the widespread dismissal of constructivism. A limitation of many of the claims regarding PDP learning, however, is that the principles underlying this learning have not been rigorously characterized. In this paper, I examine PDP models from within the framework of Valiant's PAC (probably approximately correct) model of learning, now the dominant model in machine learning, and which applies naturally to neural network learning. From this perspective, I evaluate the implications of PDP models for nativism and Fodor's influential anti-constructivist position. In particular, I demonstrate that, contrary to a number of claims, PDP models are nativist in a robust sense. I also demonstrate that PDP models actually serve as a good illustration of Fodor's anti-constructivist position. While these results may at first suggest that neural network models in general are incapable of the sort of concept acquisition that is required to refute Fodor's anti-constructivist position, I suggest that there is an alternative form of neural network learning that demonstrates the plausibility of constructivism. This alternative form of learning is a natural interpretation of the constructivist position in terms of neural network learning, as it employs learning algorithms that incorporate the addition of structure in addition to weight modification schemes. By demonstrating that there is a natural and plausible interpretation of constructivism in terms of neural network learning, the position that nativism is the only plausible model of acquisition can no longer be defended. Indeed, I briefly discuss a number of learning-theoretic reasons indicating that constructivist models so characterized uniquely possess a number of important learning characteristics.
267	connectionism	2007	Welbourne, SR; Ralph, MAL	Using parallel distributed processing models to simulate phonological dyslexia: The key role of plasticity-related recovery	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	PMSP96 [Plant, D. C., McClelland, J. L., Seidenberg, A S., & Patterson, K. Understanding normal and impaired word reading: Computational principles in quasi-regular domains. Psychological Review, 103, 56-115, 1996, Simulation 4] is an implementation of the triangle model of reading, which was able to simulate effects found in normal and surface dyslexic readers. This study replicated the original findings and explored the possibility that damage to the phonological portion of the model might produce symptoms of phonological dyslexia. The first simulation demonstrated that this implementation of PMSP96 was able to reproduce the standard effects of reading, and that when damaged by removal of the semantic input to phonology, it produced the kind of frequency/consistency interactions and regularization errors typical of surface dyslexia. The second simulation explored the effect of phonological damage. Phonological damage alone did not result in a convincing simulation of phonological dyslexia. However, when the damage was followed by a period of recovery, the network was able to simulate large lexicality and imageability effects characteristic of phonological dyslexia-the first time that both surface and phonological dyslexia have been simulated in the same parallel distributed processing network. This result supports the view that plasticity-related changes Should be a significant factor in our understanding of chronic behavioral dissociations.
268	connectionism	1997	Krishnamoorthy, AV; Miller, DAB	Firehose architectures for free-space optically interconnected VLSI circuits	JOURNAL OF PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING	Free-space optical interconnects mill soon be able to provide input/output bandwidths to a VLSI chip in excess of a terabit per second, The successful application of this technology to parallel distributed processing systems depends on the development of high-bandwidth interconnects and the ability of the architecture to sustain a stream of data at these bandwidths to the processing elements, We review examples of computational tasks that require scalable input/output, that is, computations where the I/O bandwidth of a processing element must grow in proportion to its computational bandwidth, We present several classes of optoelectronic architectures that can support a high-bandwidth data firehose and mention applications in switching, FFT, sorting, matrix-vector processing, database search, and processor-to-memory interconnect. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
269	connectionism	2010	Yan, M; Kliegl, R; Shu, H; Pan, JG; Zhou, XL	Parafoveal Load of Word N+1 Modulates Preprocessing Effectiveness of Word N+2 in Chinese Reading	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Preview benefits (PBs) from two words to the right of the fixated one (i.e., word N + 2) and associated parafoveal-on-foveal effects are critical for proposals of distributed lexical processing during reading. This experiment examined parafoveal processing during reading of Chinese sentences, using a boundary manipulation of N + 2-word preview with low- and high-frequency words N + I. The main findings were (a) an identity PB for word N + 2 that was (b) primarily observed when word N + I was of high frequency (i.e., an interaction between frequency of word N + 1 and PB for word N + 2), and (c) a parafoveal-on-foveal frequency effect of word N + 1 for fixation durations on word N. We discuss implications for theories of serial attention shifts and parallel distributed processing of words during reading.
270	connectionism	2004	Stadthagen-Gonzalez, H; Bowers, JS; Damian, MF	Age-of-acquisition effects in visual word recognition: evidence from expert vocabularies	COGNITION	Three experiments assessed the contributions of age-of-acquisition (AoA) and frequency to visual word recognition. Three databases were created from electronic journals in chemistry, psychology and geology in order to identify technical words that are extremely frequent in each discipline but acquired late in life. In Experiment 1, psychologists and chemists showed an advantage in lexical decision for late-acquired/high-frequency words (e.g. a psychologist responding to cognition) over late-acquired/low-frequency words (e.g. a chemist responding to cognition), revealing a frequency effect when words are perfectly matched. However, contrary to theories that exclude AoA as a factor, performance was similar for the late-acquired/high-frequency and early-acquired/low-frequency words (e.g. dragon) even though their cumulative frequencies differed by more than an order of magnitude. This last finding was replicated with geologists using geology words matched with early-acquired words in terms of concreteness (Experiment 2). Most interestingly, Experiment 3 yielded the same pattern of results in naming while controlling for imageability, a finding that is particularly problematic for parallel distributed processing models of reading. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
271	connectionism	1989	McClelland, JL; St John, M; Taraban, R	Sentence Comprehension: A Parallel Distributed Processing Approach	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	In this paper, we review basic aspects of conventional approaches to sentence comprehension and point out some of the difficulties faced by models that take these approaches. We then describe an alternative approach, based on the principles of parallel distributed processing, and show how it offers different answers to basic questions about the nature of the language processing mechanism. We describe an illustrative simulation model that captures the key characteristics of the approach, and illustrate how it can cope with the difficulties faced by conventional models. We describe alternative ways of conceptualising basic aspects of language processing within the framework of this approach, consider how it can address several arguments that might be brought to bear against it, and suggest avenues for future development.
272	connectionism	2012	Laszlo, S; Plaut, DC	A neurally plausible Parallel Distributed Processing model of Event-Related Potential word reading data	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) framework has significant potential for producing models of cognitive tasks that approximate how the brain performs the same tasks. To date, however, there has been relatively little contact between PDP modeling and data from cognitive neuroscience. In an attempt to advance the relationship between explicit, computational models and physiological data collected during the performance of cognitive tasks, we developed a PDP model of visual word recognition which simulates key results from the ERP reading literature, while simultaneously being able to successfully perform lexical decision-a benchmark task for reading models. Simulations reveal that the model's success depends on the implementation of several neurally plausible features in its architecture which are sufficiently domain-general to be relevant to cognitive modeling more generally. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
273	connectionism	2003	Lindner, K	The development of sentence-interpretation strategies in monolingual German-learning children with and without specific language impairment	LINGUISTICS	Previous research on sentence comprehension conducted with German-learning children has concentrated on the role of case marking and word order in typically developing children. This paper compares, the performance of German-learning children with language impairment (age 4-6 years) and without language impairment (aged 2-6, 8-9 years) in two experiments that systematically vary the cues animacy, case marking; word-order, and subject-verb agreement. The two experiments differ with regard to the choice of case marking: in the first it is distinct but in the second it is neutralized. The theoretical framework is the competition model developed by Bates and Mac Whinney and their collaborators, a variant of the parallel distributed processing models. It is hypothesized that children of either population first appreciate the cue animacy that can be processed locally, that is, "on the spot," before they turn to more distributed cues leading ultimately up to subject-verb agreement, which presupposes the comparison of various constituents before an interpretation can be established. Thus agreement is more "costly" in processing than animacy or the (more) local cue initial NP. In experiment I with unambiguous case markers it is shown that the typically developing children proceed from animacy to the nominative (predominantly in coalition with the initial NP) to agreement, while in the second experiment with ambiguous case markers these children turn from animacy to the initial NP and then to agreement. The impaired children also progress from local to distributed cues. Yet, in contrast to the control group, they do not acknowledge the nominative in coalition with the initial NP in the first experiment but only in support of agreement. However, although they do not seem to appreciate distinct case markers to any large extent in the first experiment, they are irritated if such distinctions are lacking: in experiment II all impaired children turn to. animacy (some in coalition with the initial NP and/or particular word orders). In the discussion, the relationship between short-term memory and processing as well as the relationship between production and comprehension of case markers and agreement are addressed. Further research is needed to explore in more detail "cue costs" in sentence comprehension.
274	connectionism	2002	Bowers, JS	Challenging the widespread assumption that connectionism and distributed representations go hand-in-hand	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	One of the central claims associated with the parallel distributed processing approach popularized by D.E. Rumelhart. J.L. McClelland and the PDP Research Group is that knowledge is coded in a distributed fashion, Localist representations within this perspective are widely rejected. It is important to note, however, that connectionist networks can learn localist representations and many connectionist models depend on localist coding for their functioning. Accordingly. a commitment to distributed representations Should be considered a specific theoretical claim regarding the structure of knowledge rather than a core principle, as often assumed. In this paper. it is argued that there are fundamental computational and empirical challenges that have not yet been addressed by distributed connectionist theories that are readily accommodated within localist approaches. This is highlighted in the context of modeling word and nonword naming, the domain in which some of the strongest claims have been made. It is shogun that Current PDP models provide a poor account of naming monosyllable items, and that distributed representations make it difficult for these models to scale LIP to more complex language phenomena. At the same time, models that learn localist representations are shown to hold promise in supporting many of the core reading and language functions on which PDP models fail. It is concluded that the common rejection of localist coding schemes within connectionist architectures is premature. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
275	connectionism	1998	Bourassa, DC; Besner, D	When do nonwords activate semantics? Implications for models of visual word recognition	MEMORY & COGNITION	Three lexical decision experiments examined the conditions in which nonwords activate semantics. Lexical decisions to targets (e.g., CAT) were faster when preceded by semantically related nonword primes (e.g., DEG derived from Dec) when the prime was brief and masked; this nonword priming effect was eliminated when the prime was presented for a longer duration. These results are discussed in the context of both parallel distributed processing models and the idea that the occurrence of nonword priming depends upon subjects being unable to verify the identity of the prime.
276	connectionism	2010	Coltheart, M; Tree, JJ; Saunders, SJ	Computational Modeling of Reading in Semantic Dementia: Comment on Woollams, Lambon Ralph, Plaut, and Patterson (2007)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Woollams, Lambon Ralph, Plaut, and Patterson (2007) reported detailed data on reading in 51 cases of semantic dementia. They simulated some aspects of these data using a connectionist parallel distributed processing (PDP) triangle model of reading. We argue here that a different model of reading, the dual route cascaded (DRC) model of Coltheart, Rastle, Perry, Langdon, and Ziegler (2001), not only provides a more accurate simulation of these aspects of reading in semantic dementia than does the PDP model but also provides highly accurate simulations of other aspects of reading in this disorder that the PDP approach has not simulated. We conclude that our findings add to evidence both from simulations of normal skilled reading and from simulations of other kinds of acquired dyslexia that the nonconnectionist DRC model of reading offers a better account of normal and disordered reading than the connectionist PDP models of reading.
277	connectionism	2008	Mckay, A; Davis, C; Savage, G; Castles, A	Semantic Involvement in Reading Aloud: Evidence From a Nonword Training Study	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The current research uses a novel methodology to examine the role of semantics in reading aloud. Participants were trained to read aloud 2 sets of novel words (i.e., nonwords such as bink): some with meanings (semantic) and some without (nonsemantic). A comparison of reading aloud performance between these 2 sets of novel words was used to provide an indicator of the importance of semantic information in reading aloud. In Experiment 1, in contrast to expectations, reading aloud performance was not better for novel words in the semantic condition. In Experiment 2, the training of novel words was modified to reflect more realistic steps of lexical acquisition: Reading aloud performance became faster and more accurate for novel words in the semantic condition, but only for novel words with inconsistent pronunciations. This semantic advantage for inconsistent novel words was again observed when a subset of participants from Experiment 2 was retested 6-12 months later (in Experiment 3). These findings provide support for a limited but significant role for semantics in the reading aloud process.
278	connectionism	1996	Jadid, MN; Fairbairn, DR	Neural-network applications in predicting moment-curvature parameters from experimental data	ENGINEERING APPLICATIONS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The objective of this study is to demonstrate a concept and a methodology, rather than to build a full-scale knowledge-based system model by incorporating most of the fundamental aspects of a neural network to solve the complex non-linear mapping for a beam-column joint. This paper presents the concept of parallel distributed processing base learning in artificial neural networks, in assisting with experimental evidence to predict moment-curvature parameters that are usually accomplished solely by experimental work. Generally, it may be possible to identify certain parameters, and allow the neural network to develop the model, thus accounting for the observed behaviour without relying on a particular algorithm, but depending entirely on the manipulation of numerical data. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd
279	connectionism	2004	Ray, S; Bates, ME; Bly, BM	Alcohol's dissociation of implicit and explicit memory processes: Implications of a parallel distributed processing model of semantic priming	EXPERIMENTAL AND CLINICAL PSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	Alcohol's dissociation of implicit (unintentional) and explicit (intentional) memory processes in social drinkers was examined. It was hypothesized that an alcohol challenge would lower the percentage of words recalled and result in more retroactive interference in explicit recall tasks but would not lengthen reaction time in an implicit semantic priming task involving highly semantically similar words. Men and women completed all memory tasks in each of 2 counterbalanced sessions (alcohol challenge vs. no-alcohol) separated by I week. Alcohol significantly degraded processing in both explicit memory tasks, yet implicit semantic priming remained intact. A parallel distributed processing model that simulates semantic memory is presented. When this system is strongly activated, it does not appear to be altered during moderate alcohol intoxication.
280	connectionism	2002	Ioannides, AA; Kostopoulos, GK; Laskaris, NA; Liu, LH; Shibata, T; Schellens, M; Poghosyan, V; Khurshudyan, A	Timing and connectivity in the human somatosensory cortex from single trial mass electrical activity	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	Parallel-distributed processing is ubiquitous in the brain but often ignored by experimental designs and methods of analysis, which presuppose sequential and stereotypical brain activations. We introduce here a methodology that can effectively deal with sequential and distributed activity. Regional brain activations elicited by electrical median nerve stimulation are identified in tomographic estimates extracted from single trial magnetoencephalographic signals. Habituation is identified in both primary somatosensory cortex (SI) and secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), often interrupted by resurgence of strong activations. Pattern analysis is used to identify, single trials with homogeneous regional brain activations. Common activity patterns with well-defined connectivity are identified within each homogeneous group of single trials across the subjects studied. On the contralateral side one encounters distinct sets of single trials following identical stimuli. We observe in one set of trials sequential activation from SI to SII and insula with onset of SII at 60 msec, whereas in the other set simultaneous early co-activations of the same two areas. (C) 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
281	connectionism	1999	Darian-Smith, I; Burman, K; Darian-Smith, C	Parallel pathways mediating manual dexterity in the macaque	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Transmission of information along appropriately structured parallel pathways ensures that a great deal of information can be transferred from the source to the target very quickly, and with great security-essential features of any motor control system. Studies over the last two decades have established that the corticospinal and corticocerebellar pathways mediating manual dexterity in the primate are structurally organized to sustain the parallel transmission of sensorimotor information in multiple pathways. Serial, hierarchical control systems now seem insufficient to regulate voluntary hand movements. To achieve the required coordination, and precision and speed of execution, they must be combined with parallel control systems, which themselves incorporate elaborate feedforward and feedback controls. To illustrate these issues, two aspects of the structural organization of parallel sensorimotor pathways mediating manual dexterity in the macaque are reviewed. First, we examine the structure of the multiple corticospinal neuron sub-populations projecting from different areas of the frontoparietal cortex and how they are modified following hemisection of the cervical spinal cord. The remarkable recovery of hand function following spinal hemisection, despite the absence of any structural 'bridging' of the interrupted spinal pathways, and the fact that this is accountable in a parallel but not in a purely serial transmission system, are then reviewed. The second aspect of parallel distributed transmission examined is its occurrence within a single population of relay neurons. Our recent structural analysis of the somatic/dendritic organization of rubrospinal neurons in macaque red nucleus is used. The very large dendritic fields of individual neurons, extending over one-third or more of the nucleus, provide a framework for extracting precise somatotopic information from an input population whose axon terminal arbors overlap extensively, and, which, without effective filtering, would provide poor spatial resolution.
282	connectionism	1993	LEYDESDORFF, L	STRUCTURE ACTION CONTINGENCIES AND THE MODEL OF PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING	JOURNAL FOR THE THEORY OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR	0
283	connectionism	2013	Cortese, MJ; Schock, J	Imageability and age of acquisition effects in disyllabic word recognition	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Imageability and age of acquisition (AoA) effects, as well as key interactions between these variables and frequency and consistency, were examined via multiple regression analyses for 1,936 disyllabic words, using reaction time and accuracy measures from the English Lexicon Project. Both imageability and AoA accounted for unique variance in lexical decision and naming reaction time performance. In addition, across both tasks, AoA and imageability effects were larger for low-frequency words than high-frequency words, and imageability effects were larger for later acquired than earlier acquired words. In reading aloud, consistency effects in reaction time were larger for later acquired words than earlier acquired words, but consistency did not interact with imageability in the reaction time analysis. These results provide further evidence that multisyllabic word recognition is similar to monosyllabic word recognition and indicate that AoA and imageability are valid predictors of word recognition performance. In addition, the results indicate that meaning exerts a larger influence in the reading aloud of multisyllabic words than monosyllabic words. Finally, parallel-distributed-processing approaches provide a useful theoretical framework to explain the main effects and interactions.
284	connectionism	1992	FERA, P; BESNER, D	THE PROCESS OF LEXICAL DECISION - MORE WORDS ABOUT A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Central to Seidenberg and McClelland's (1989) parallel distributed processing (PDP) model's account of lexical decision is the assumption that performance is determined by the amount of overlap in the distribution of the orthographic error scores between words and nonwords. The present experiment demonstrates lexical decision performance that is independent of the distribution of orthographic error scores between words and nonwords. Furthermore, the orthographic error scores from the model capture no variance in the reaction time data to words, even in a condition in which the orthographic overlap between words and nonwords is minimal. Other issues are discussed.
285	connectionism	1999	Sears, CR; Hino, Y; Lupker, SJ	Orthographic neighbourhood effects in parallel distributed processing models	CANADIAN JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-REVUE CANADIENNE DE PSYCHOLOGIE EXPERIMENTALE	Recent research in visual word recognition suggests that the speed with which a word is identified is influenced by the reader's knowledge of other, orthographically similar words (Andrews, 1997). In serial-search and activation-based models of word recognition, mental representations of these "orthographic neighbours" of a word are explicitly assumed to play a role in the lexical selection process. Thus, it has been possible to determine the specific predictions that these models make about the effects of orthographic neighbours and to test a number of those predictions empirically. In contrast, the role of orthographic neighbours in parallel distributed processing models (e.g., Plaut, McClelland, Seidenberg, & Patterson, 1996; Seidenberg & McClelland, 1989) is less clear. In this paper, several statistical analyses of error scores from these types of models revealed that low frequency words with large neighbourhoods had lower orthographic, phonological, and cross-entropy error scores than low frequency words with small neighbourhoods; and that low frequency words with higher frequency neighbours had lower error scores than low frequency words without higher frequency neighbours. According to these models then, processing should be more rapid for low frequency words with large neighbourhoods and for low frequency words with higher frequency neighbours.
286	connectionism	2012	Yan, M; Risse, S; Zhou, XL; Kliegl, R	Preview fixation duration modulates identical and semantic preview benefit in Chinese reading	READING AND WRITING	Semantic preview benefit from parafoveal words is critical for proposals of distributed lexical processing during reading. Semantic preview benefit has been demonstrated for Chinese reading with the boundary paradigm in which unrelated or semantically related previews of a target word N + 1 are replaced by the target word once the eyes cross an invisible boundary located after word N (Yan et al., 2009); for the target word in position N + 2, only identical compared to unrelated-word preview led to shorter fixation times on the target word (Yan et al., in press). A reanalysis of these data reveals that identical and semantic preview benefits depend on preview duration (i.e., the fixation duration on the preboundary word). Identical preview benefit from word N + 1 increased with preview duration. The identical preview benefit was also significant for N + 2, but did not significantly interact with preview duration. The previously reported semantic preview benefit from word N + 1 was mainly due to single- or first-fixation durations following short previews. We discuss implications for notions of serial attention shifts and parallel distributed processing of words during reading.
287	connectionism	2000	Humphreys, MS; Tehan, G; O'Shea, A; Bolland, SW	Target similarity effects: Support for the parallel distributed processing assumptions	MEMORY & COGNITION	Recent research has begun to provide support for the assumptions that memories are stored as a composite and are accessed in parallel (Tehan & Humphreys, 1998). New predictions derived from these assumptions and from the Chappell and Humphreys (1994) implementation of these assumptions were tested. In three experiments, subjects studied relatively short lists of words. Some of the Lists contained two similar targets (thief and theft) or two dissimilar targets (thief and steal) associated with the same cue (ROBBERY). AS predicted, target similarity affected performance in cued recall but not free association. Contrary to predictions, two spaced presentations of a target did not improve performance in free association. Two additional experiments confirmed and extended this finding. Several alternative explanations for the target similarity effect, which incorporate assumptions about separate representations and sequential search, are rejected. The importance of the finding that, in at least one implicit memory paradigm, repetition does not improve performance is also discussed.
288	connectionism	2002	Ukai, S; Shinosaki, K; Ishii, R; Ogawa, A; Mizuno-Matsumoto, Y; Inouye, T; Hirabuki, N; Yoshimine, T; Robinson, SE; Takeda, M	Parallel distributed processing neuroimaging in the Stroop task using spatially filtered magnetoencephalography analysis	NEUROSCIENCE LETTERS	Parallel distributed processing neuroimaging in the Stroop color word interference task in five healthy subjects was studied. The total reaction time was set at 650 ms with a time window of 200 ms in steps of 50 ms. Spatially filtered magnetoencephalography analysis, as used in synthetic aperture magnetometry, was used. Neural activation began in the left posterior parietal-occipital area (150-250 ms post-stimulus), followed by the right prefrontal polar area (250-350 ms), the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (250-400 ms), and the mid- to lower- primary motor area (350-400 ms). Successive and temporally overlapping activation of various cortical regions were successfully estimated within a short 200 ms time interval, contrary to previous positron emission tomography and fMRI studies. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
289	connectionism	2001	Snyder, PJ; Cappelleri, JC	Information processing speed deficits may be better correlated with the extent of white matter sclerotic lesions in multiple sclerosis than previously suspected	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Despite frequent use of the paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT, Gronwall, 1977) for examining, information processing speed (IPS) deficits in multiple sclerosis (MS), prior literature on the relationship between PASAT performance and severity of brain disease has been contradictory. In the present study, we found that PASAT performance is moderately well correlated with the total area of Sclerotic brain lesions in MS patients only if a modified scoring method (mean "dyad" score; Snyder et al., 1993), but not the standard scoring method, is applied. We conclude that the PASAT remains a useful measure of IFS in MS, if a flaw in the: typical scoring technique for this test is corrected. In our sample of 41 MS patients, for every one point decrease in mean dyad score, total lesion area increased by 364.08 mm(2) on average, after controlling for age, sex, and education. IFS deficits are more severe for patients with greater brain disease, due to increased disruption of the white matter pathways that likely support the parallel distributed processing of complex information by geographically distant brain regions. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
290	connectionism	1993	FU, L; YANG, M; BRAYLAN, R; BENSON, N	REAL-TIME ADAPTIVE CLUSTERING OF FLOW CYTOMETRIC DATA	PATTERN RECOGNITION	In dealing with massive flow cytometric data, a real-time adaptive clustering technique referred to as RTAC has been developed. This technique adopts the brain metaphor for information processing. The problem-solving structure is configured as a connectionist network. Information is encoded in the form of connection weights. The structure evolves as more data are seen by adjusting its weights, governed by a learning equation. The number of clusters need not be predefined. The algorithm is fast and robust. The results are reported from the domain of measuring the antigenic properties of blood samples. Its relations to other clustering alternatives are discussed. The technique has been validated statistically with respect to self-consistency.
291	connectionism	2014	McClelland, JL; Mirman, D; Bolger, DJ; Khaitan, P	Interactive Activation and Mutual Constraint Satisfaction in Perception and Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In a seminal 1977 article, Rumelhart argued that perception required the simultaneous use of multiple sources of information, allowing perceivers to optimally interpret sensory information at many levels of representation in real time as information arrives. Building on Rumelhart's arguments, we present the Interactive Activation hypothesis-the idea that the mechanism used in perception and comprehension to achieve these feats exploits an interactive activation process implemented through the bidirectional propagation of activation among simple processing units. We then examine the interactive activation model of letter and word perception and the TRACE model of speech perception, as early attempts to explore this hypothesis, and review the experimental evidence relevant to their assumptions and predictions. We consider how well these models address the computational challenge posed by the problem of perception, and we consider how consistent they are with evidence from behavioral experiments. We examine empirical and theoretical controversies surrounding the idea of interactive processing, including a controversy that swirls around the relationship between interactive computation and optimal Bayesian inference. Some of the implementation details of early versions of interactive activation models caused deviation from optimality and from aspects of human performance data. More recent versions of these models, however, overcome these deficiencies. Among these is a model called the multinomial interactive activation model, which explicitly links interactive activation and Bayesian computations. We also review evidence from neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies supporting the view that interactive processing is a characteristic of the perceptual processing machinery in the brain. In sum, we argue that a computational analysis, as well as behavioral and neuroscience evidence, all support the Interactive Activation hypothesis. The evidence suggests that contemporary versions of models based on the idea of interactive activation continue to provide a basis for efforts to achieve a fuller understanding of the process of perception.
292	connectionism	2010	Pagliuca, G; Monaghan, P	Discovering large grain sizes in a transparent orthography: Insights from a connectionist model of Italian word naming	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Classic connectionist models of reading have traditionally focused on English, a language with a quasiregular (deep) relationship between orthography and phonology, and very little work has been conducted on more transparent (shallow) orthographies. This paper introduces a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model of reading for Italian. The model was explicitly developed in order to deal with polysyllabic words and stress assignment. One of the core issues regarding such PDP models is whether they can show sensitivity to large grain sizes, as documented by the existence of morphological and neighbourhood effects in nonword reading aloud showed by native Italian speakers (Arduino Burani, 2004; Burani, Marcolini, de Luca, Zoccolotti, 2008). The model is successful in simulating these effects, previously accounted for by dual route architectures. The model was also able to simulate stress consistency effects.
293	connectionism	2008	Cui, B; Lu, H; Xu, QQ; Chen, LJ; Dai, YF; Zhou, YL	Parallel distributed processing of constrained skyline queries by filtering	2008 IEEE 24TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON DATA ENGINEERING, VOLS 1-3	Skyline queries are capable of retrieving interesting points from a large data set according to multiple criteria. Most work on skyline queries so far has assumed a centralized storage, whereas in practice relevant data are often distributed among geographically scattered sites. In this work, we tackle constrained skyline queries in large-scale distributed environments without the assumption of any overlay structures, and propose a novel algorithm named PaDSkyline (Parallel Distributed Skyline query processing). PaDSkyline significantly shortens the response time by performing parallel processing over site groups produced by a partition algorithm. Within each group, it locally optimizes the query processing over distributed sites. It also drastically enhances the network transmission efficiency by performing early reduction of skyline candidates with deliberately selected multiple filtering points. Results of extensive experiments demonstrate the efficiency and robustness of our proposals.
294	connectionism	2008	Besner, D; Wartak, S; Robidoux, S	Constraints on computational models of basic processes in reading	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	There are numerous reports in the visual word recognition literature that the joint effects of various factors are additive on reaction time. A central claim by D. C. Plant and J. R. Booth (2000, 2006) is that their parallel distributed processing model simulates additive effects of stimulus quality and word frequency in the context of lexical decision. If correct, this success would have important implications for computational accounts of reading processes. However, the results of further simulations with this model undermine this claim given that the joint effects of stimulus quality and word frequency yield a nonmonotonic function (underadditivity, additivity, and overadditivity) depending on the size of the stimulus quality effect, whereas skilled readers yield additivity more broadly. The implications of these results both locally and more globally are discussed, and a number of other issues are noted, Additivity of factor effects constitutes a benchmark that computational accounts should strive to meet.
295	connectionism	2007	Beversdorf, DQ; Narayanan, A; Hillier, A; Hughes, JD	Network model of decreased context utilization in autism spectrum disorder	JOURNAL OF AUTISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDERS	Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) demonstrate impaired utilization of context, which allows for superior performance on the "false memory" task. We report the application of a simplified parallel distributed processing model of context utilization to the false memory task. For individuals without ASD, experiments support a model wherein presentation of one word, e.g., "apple,'' strongly activates the neighboring nodes of closely related words such as "fruit,'' "tree,'' whereas in ASD these neighboring nodes are relatively less activated. We demonstrate this model to be consistent with the superior performance on recognition testing on the false memory test, but not on free recall. This may have an anatomic basis in diminished hippocampal neuronal arborization and the abnormal minicolumnar pathology in ASD.
296	connectionism	1993	GOLDEN, RM; RUMELHART, DE	A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODEL OF STORY COMPREHENSION AND RECALL	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	An optimal control theory of story comprehension and recall is proposed within the framework of a ''situation''-state space. A point in situation-state space is specified by a collection of propositions, each of which can have the values of either ''present'' or ''absent.'' A trajectory in situation-state space is a temporally ordered sequence of situations. A reader's knowledge that the occurrence of one situation is likely to cause the occurrence of another situation is represented by a subjective conditional probability distribution. A multistate probabilistic (MSP) causal chain notation is also introduced for conveniently describing the knowledge structures implicitly represented by the subjective conditional probability distribution. A story is represented as a partially specified trajectory in situation-state space, and thus, story comprehension is defined as the problem of inferring the most probable missing features of the partially specified story trajectory. The story-recall process is also viewed as a procedure that solves the problem of estimating the most probable missing features of a partially specified trajectory, but the partially specified trajectory in this latter case is an episodic memory trace of the reader's understanding of the story. A parallel distributed processing (PDP) model whose connection strengths are derived from the MSP causal chain representation is then introduced. The PDP model is shown to solve the problem of estimating the missing features of a partially specified trajectory in situation-state space, and the model's story-recall performance is then qualitatively compared to known performance characteristics of human memory for stories.
297	connectionism	1991	RODGERS, W	HOW DO LOAN OFFICERS MAKE THEIR DECISIONS ABOUT CREDIT RISKS - A STUDY OF PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING	JOURNAL OF ECONOMIC PSYCHOLOGY	0
298	connectionism	2008	Koylu, B; Walser, G; Ischebeck, A; Ortler, M; Benke, T	Functional imaging of semantic memory predicts postoperative episodic memory functions in chronic temporal lobe epilepsy	BRAIN RESEARCH	Medial temporal (MTL) structures have crucial functions in episodic (EM), but also in semantic memory (SM) processing. Preoperative functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity within the MTL is increasingly used to predict post-surgical memory capacities. Based on the hypothesis that EM and SM memory functions are both hosted by the MTL the present study wanted to explore the relationship between SM related activations in the MTL as assessed before and the capacity of EM functions after surgery. Patients with chronic unilateral left (n=14) and right (n=12) temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) performed a standard word list learning test pre- and postoperatively, and a fMRI procedure before the operation using a semantic decision task. SM processing caused significant bilateral MTL activations in both patient groups. While right TLE patients showed asymmetry of fMRI activation with more activation in the left MTL, left TLE patients had almost equal activation in both MTL regions. Contrasting left TLE versus right TLE patients revealed greater activity within the right MTL, whereas no significant difference was observed for the reverse contrast. Greater effect size in the MTL region ipsilateral to the seizure focus was significantly and positively correlated with preoperative EM abilities. Greater effect size in the contralateral MTL was correlated with better postoperative verbal EM, especially in left TLE patients. These results suggest that functional imaging of SM tasks may be useful to predict postoperative verbal memory in TLE. They also advocate a common neuroanatomical basis for SM and EM processes in the MTL. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
299	connectionism	1991	HULME, C; SNOWLING, M; QUINLAN, P	CONNECTIONISM AND LEARNING TO READ - STEPS TOWARDS A PSYCHOLOGICALLY PLAUSIBLE MODEL	READING AND WRITING	0
300	connectionism	2014	Smolensky, P; Goldrick, M; Mathis, D	Optimization and Quantization in Gradient Symbol Systems: A Framework for Integrating the Continuous and the Discrete in Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Mental representations have continuous as well as discrete, combinatorial properties. For example, while predominantly discrete, phonological representations also vary continuously; this is reflected by gradient effects in instrumental studies of speech production. Can an integrated theoretical framework address both aspects of structure? The framework we introduce here, Gradient Symbol Processing, characterizes the emergence of grammatical macrostructure from the Parallel Distributed Processing microstructure (McClelland, Rumelhart, & The PDP Research Group, 1986) of language processing. The mental representations that emerge, Distributed Symbol Systems, have both combinatorial and gradient structure. They are processed through Subsymbolic Optimization-Quantization, in which an optimization process favoring representations that satisfy well-formedness constraints operates in parallel with a distributed quantization process favoring discrete symbolic structures. We apply a particular instantiation of this framework, k-Diffusion Theory, to phonological production. Simulations of the resulting model suggest that Gradient Symbol Processing offers a way to unify accounts of grammatical competence with both discrete and continuous patterns in language performance.
301	distributed	2005	Hutchins, E	Material anchors for conceptual blends	JOURNAL OF PRAGMATICS	Reasoning processes require stable representations of constraints. There are two principal ways to achieve stability in conceptual models. First, the conceptual models that anthropologists call cultural models achieve representational stability via a combination of intrapersonal and interpersonal processes. Second, the association of conceptual structure with material structure can stabilize conceptual representations. This is an old and pervasive cognitive strategy. Conceptual blending theory provides a useful framework for considering the joint contributions and mutual constraints of mental and material structure. Projecting material structure into a blended space can stabilize the conceptual blend. I call an input space from which material structure is projected into a blend a 'material anchor' for the blend. The term material anchor is meant to emphasize the stabilizing role of the material structure. In this article, I will present and discuss a number of examples of materially anchored blends, which depend to different degrees on material structure. Materially anchored blends vary on a number of complexly related dimensions, including the extent to which the blend relies on the presence of material structure in the perceptual field, the complexity of the material structure, and whether the material structure was designed to support the blend or is used opportunistically. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
302	distributed	1991	HUTCHINS, E	THE SOCIAL-ORGANIZATION OF DISTRIBUTED COGNITION	PERSPECTIVES ON SOCIALLY SHARED COGNITION	0
303	distributed	2002	Barab, SA; Plucker, JA	Smart people or smart contexts? Cognition, ability, and talent development in an age of situated approaches to knowing and learning	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	Intelligence, expertise, ability and talent, as these terms have traditionally been used in education and psychology, are socially agreed upon labels that minimize the dynamic, evolving, and contextual nature of individual-environment relations. These hypothesized constructs can instead be described as functional relations distributed across whole persons and particular contexts through which individuals appear knowledgeably skillful. The purpose of this article is to support a concept of ability and talent development that is theoretically grounded in 5 distinct, yet interrelated, notions: ecological psychology, situated cognition, distributed cognition, activity theory, and legitimate peripheral participation. Although talent may be reserved by some to describe individuals possessing exceptional ability and ability may be described as an internal trait, in our description neither ability nor talent are possessed. Instead, they are treated as equivalent terms that can be used to describe functional transactions that are situated across person-in-situation. Further, and more important, by arguing that ability is part of the individual-environment transaction, we take the potential to appear talented out of the hands (or heads) of the few and instead treat it as an opportunity that is available to all although it may be actualized more frequently by some.
304	distributed	2002	Patel, VL; Kaufman, DR; Arocha, JF	Emerging paradigms of cognition in medical decision-making	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The limitations of the classical or traditional paradigm of decision research are increasingly apparent, even though there has been a substantial body of empirical research on medical decision-making over the past 40 years. As decision-support technology continues to proliferate in medical settings, it is imperative that "basic science" decision research develop a broader-based and more valid foundation for the study of medical decision-making as it occurs in the natural setting. This paper critically reviews both traditional and recent approaches to medical decision making, considering the integration of problem-solving and decision-making research paradigms, the role of conceptual knowledge in decision-making, and the emerging paradigm of naturalistic decision-making. We also provide an examination of technology-mediated decision-making. Expanding the scope of decision research will better enable us to understand optimal decision processes, suitable coping mechanisms under suboptimal conditions, the development of expertise in decision-making, and ways in which decision-support technology can successfully mediate decision processes. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
305	distributed	2007	Ancker, JS; Kaufman, D	Rethinking health numeracy: A multidisciplinary literature review	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL INFORMATICS ASSOCIATION	The purpose of this review is to organize various published conceptions of health numeracy and to discuss how health numeracy contributes to the productive use of quantitative information for health. We define health numeracy as the individual-level skills needed to understand and use quantitative health information, including basic computation skills, ability to use information in documents and non-text formats such as graphs, and ability to communicate orally. We also identify two other factors affecting whether a consumer can use quantitative health information: design of documents and other information artifacts, and health-care providers' communication skills. We draw upon the distributed cognition perspective to argue that essential ingredients for the productive use of quantitative health information include not only health numeracy but also good provider communication skills, as well as documents and devices that are designed to enhance comprehension and cognition.
306	distributed	2009	Grundgeiger, T; Sanderson, P	Interruptions in healthcare: Theoretical views	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Researchers in healthcare have begun to investigate interruptions extensively, given evidence for the adverse effects of work interruptions in other domains and given the highly interruptive hospital environment. In this paper, we reviewed literature on interruptions in critical care and medication dispensing settings in search of evidence for a relationship between interruptions and adverse events. Methods: The literature search included the databases MEDLINE, CINAHL+ Pre CINHAL, Health Sources: Nursing Academic Edition, EMBASE, PsycINFO, ISI Web of Science and Ergonomics Abstracts. The paper titles and abstracts were subsequently reviewed. After the initial search, we reviewed paper titles and abstracts to define the subset for review. Results: We currently lack evidence in healthcare of the extent to which interruptions lead to adverse effects. The lack of evidence may be due to the descriptive rather than causal nature of most studies, the lack of theory motivating investigations of the relationship, the fact that healthcare is a complex and varied domain, and inadequate conceptualizations of accident aetiology. We identify two recent accident theories in which the relationship between activity and medical errors is complex, indicating that even when it is sought, causal evidence is hard to find. Discussion: Future research on interruptions in healthcare settings should focus on the following. First, prospective memory research and distributed cognition can provide a theoretical background for understanding the impact of interruptions and so could provide guidance for future empirical research on interruptions and the planning of actions in healthcare. Second, studying how interruptions are successfully rather than unsuccessfully overcome may better help us understand their effects. Third, because interruptions almost always have positive and adverse effects, more appropriate dependent variables could be chosen. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
307	distributed	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
308	distributed	2008	Omicini, A; Ricci, A; Viroli, M	Artifacts in the A&A meta-model for multi-agent systems	AUTONOMOUS AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	In this article we focus on the notion of artifact for agents in multi-agent systems (MAS) as a basis for a new meta-model promoting the modelling and engineering of agent societies and MAS environment as first-class entities. Its conceptual foundations lay upon theories and results coming from computational sciences as well as from organisational and cognitive sciences, psychology, computer supported cooperative work (CSCW), anthropology and ethology. In the resulting agents & artifacts (A&A) meta-model, agents are the (pro-)active entities in charge of the goals/tasks that altogether build up the whole MAS behaviour, whereas artifacts are the reactive entities providing the services and functions that make individual agents work together in a MAS, and that shape agent environment according to the MAS needs. After presenting the scientific background, we define the notions of artifact in the A&A meta-model, discuss how it affects the notion of intelligence in MAS, and show its application to a number of agent-related research fields.
309	distributed	2005	Fischer, G; Giaccardi, E; Eden, H; Sugimoto, M; Ye, YW	Beyond binary choices: Integrating individual and social creativity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	The power of the unaided individual mind is highly overrated. Although society often thinks of creative individuals as working in isolation, intelligence and creativity result in large part from interaction and collaboration with other individuals. Much human creativity is social, arising from activities that take place in a context in which interaction with other People and the artifacts that embody collective knowledge are essential contributors. This paper examines: (1) how individual and social creativity can be integrated by means of proper collaboration models and tools supporting distributed cognitiori; (2) how the creation of shareable externalizations ("boundary objects") and the adoption of evolutionary process models in the construction of meta-design environments can enhance creativity and support spontaneous design activities ("unselfconscious cultures of design"); and (3) how a new design competence is emerging-one that requires passage from individual creative actions to synergetic activities, from the reflective practitioner to reflective communities and from given tasks to personally meaningful activities. The paper offers examples in the context of collaborative design and art practice, including urban planning, interactive art and open source. In the effort to draw a viable path "beyond binary choices", the paper points out some major challenges for the next generation of socio-technical environments to further increase the integration of individual and social creativity. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
310	distributed	2004	Love, N	Cognition and the language myth	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	There is arguably a parallel between recent ideas within cognitive science about the distributed mind and the development within linguistics known as integrationism, turning on similarities between the critique offered by the former of the 'classical' view of mind and by the latter of the 'classical' view of language. However, at the heart of the integrationist attack on the classical view of language is rejection of the idea that natural languages are codes. This idea appears to be taken for granted by certain cognitive scientists as the basis for explaining not only how language is mentally apprehended by the individual, but also how it facilitates,second-order cognition'. It is suggested that the language-as-code idea, although prima facie endowed with the attractiveness of common sense, is untenable, and should not figure, at least in the role usually assigned to it, in any inquiry into either language or human cognition in general. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
311	distributed	2008	Kittur, A; Kraut, RE	Harnessing the Wisdom of Crowds in Wikipedia: Quality Through Coordination	CSCW: 2008 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK, CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS	Wikipedia's success is often attributed to the large numbers of contributors who improve the accuracy, completeness and clarity of articles while reducing bias. However, because of the coordination needed to write an article collaboratively, adding contributors is costly. We examined how the number of editors in Wikipedia and the coordination methods they use affect article quality. We distinguish between explicit coordination, in which editors plan the article through communication, and implicit coordination, in which a subset of editors structure the work by doing the majority of it. Adding more editors to an article improved article quality only when they used appropriate coordination techniques and was harmful when they did not. Implicit coordination through concentrating the work was more helpful when many editors contributed, but explicit coordination through communication was not. Both types of coordination improved quality more when an article was in a formative stage. These results demonstrate the critical importance of coordination in effectively harnessing the "wisdom of the crowd" in online production environments.
312	distributed	2010	Sutton, J; Harris, CB; Keil, PG; Barnier, AJ	The psychology of memory, extended cognition, and socially distributed remembering	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This paper introduces a new, expanded range of relevant cognitive psychological research on collaborative recall and social memory to the philosophical debate on extended and distributed cognition. We start by examining the case for extended cognition based on the complementarity of inner and outer resources, by which neural, bodily, social, and environmental resources with disparate but complementary properties are integrated into hybrid cognitive systems, transforming or augmenting the nature of remembering or decision-making. Adams and Aizawa, noting this distinctive complementarity argument, say that they agree with it completely: but they describe it as "a non-revolutionary approach" which leaves "the cognitive psychology of memory as the study of processes that take place, essentially without exception, within nervous systems." In response, we carve out, on distinct conceptual and empirical grounds, a rich middle ground between internalist forms of cognitivism and radical anti-cognitivism. Drawing both on extended cognition literature and on Sterelny's account of the "scaffolded mind" (this issue), we develop a multidimensional framework for understanding varying relations between agents and external resources, both technological and social. On this basis we argue that, independent of any more "revolutionary" metaphysical claims about the partial constitution of cognitive processes by external resources, a thesis of scaffolded or distributed cognition can substantially influence or transform explanatory practice in cognitive science. Critics also cite various empirical results as evidence against the idea that remembering can extend beyond skull and skin. We respond with a more principled, representative survey of the scientific psychology of memory, focussing in particular on robust recent empirical traditions for the study of collaborative recall and transactive social memory. We describe our own empirical research on socially distributed remembering, aimed at identifying conditions for mnemonic emergence in collaborative groups. Philosophical debates about extended, embedded, and distributed cognition can thus make richer, mutually beneficial contact with independently motivated research programs in the cognitive psychology of memory.
313	distributed	1998	King, A	Transactive peer tutoring: Distributing cognition and metacognition	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	"ASK to THINK-TEL WHY(R(C)("3)) is an inquiry-based model of mutual peer tutoring in which tutoring partners mediate each others' learning in a transactive manner This tutorial model is designed as a "person-plus" cognitive partnership that supports the distribution of cognition and metacognition in order to promote complex; higher-level learning. This article focuses on what is being distributed during "ASK to THINK-TEL WHY(R)(C)" (i.e., the cognitive tasks of questioning, explaining, thinking, problem solving, as well as monitoring and regulation of learning) and how these cognitions are distributed across the tutoring pair and various aspects of their learning environment. Results of research on the effectiveness of using this model in classroom contexts has shown that the model promotes students' construction of new knowledge.
314	distributed	2005	Xiao, Y	Artifacts and collaborative work in healthcare: methodological, theoretical, and technological implications of the tangible	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Although modeled as knowledge work with emphasis on data flow and decision making, healthcare is delivered in the context of a highly structured physical environment, with much effort and emphasis placed on physical and spatial arrangement and re-arrangement of workers, patients, and materials. The tangible aspects of highly collaborative healthcare work have profound implications for research and development of information and communication technology (ICT) despite the tendency to model work as flow of abstract data items. This article reviews field studies in healthcare and other domains on the role of artifacts in collaborative work and draws implications in three areas: methodological, theoretical, and technological. In regard to methodologies, assessment of new ICT and development of user requirements should take into account how artifacts are used and exploited to facilitate collaborative work. In regard to theories, the framework of distributed cognition provides a starting point for modeling the contribution and exploitation of physical artifacts in supporting collaborative work. In regard to technology, design and deployment of new technology should support the functions provided by physical artifacts replaced or disrupted by new technology, and profitable ways for new technology to support collaborative work by embedding ICT into existing infrastructure of physical artifacts. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
315	distributed	2000	Wright, PC; Fields, RE; Harrison, MD	Analyzing human-computer interaction as distributed cognition: The resources model	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	In this article we present a new approach to interaction modeling based on the concept of information resources. The approach is inspired by recent distributed cognition (DC) literature but develops a model that applies specifically to human-computer interaction (HCI) modeling. Of course, there are many approaches to modeling HCI, and the motivation of this article is not to offer yet another approach. Rather, our motivation is that the recent developments in DC are so obviously relevant to HCI modeling and design, yet the ideas have lacked visibility in the HCI community. By providing a model whose concepts are rooted in DC concepts, we hope to achieve this visibility. DC research identifies resources for action as central to the interaction between people and technologies, but it stops short of providing a definition of such resources at a level that could be used to analyze interaction. The resources model described in this article defines a limited number of resource types as abstract information structures that can be used to analyze interaction. We demonstrate how these abstract types can be represented differently in an interface. The resources model uses the concept of interaction strategy to describe the way in which different configurations of resources can differently shape users' actions. These 2 components of the resources model (information structures and interaction strategies), through the process of coordination and integration, provide a link among devices, representations, and actions that is not well articulated in the DC literature.
316	distributed	2009	Sawyer, RK; DeZutter, S	Distributed Creativity: How Collective Creations Emerge From Collaboration	PSYCHOLOGY OF AESTHETICS CREATIVITY AND THE ARTS	Creativity is often considered to be a mental process that occurs within a person's head. In this article, we analyze a group creative process: One that generates a creative product, but one in which no single participants contribution determines the result. We analyze a series of 5 theater performances that were improvisationally developed in rehearsal by a theater group; over the course of these 5 performances, a collaborative creation emerged from the improvised dialogues of the group. We argue that in cases of creativity such as this one, it is inaccurate to describe creativity as a purely mental process; rather, this case represents a nonindividualistic creative process that we refer to as distributed creativity. We chose this term by analogy with studies of distributed cognition, which are well established in cognitive science, but have not yet had a substantial impact on creativity research. Our study demonstrates a methodology that can be used to study distributed creative processes, provides a theoretical framework to explain these processes, and contributes to our understanding of how collaboration contributes to creativity.
317	distributed	1994	ROGERS, Y; ELLIS, J	DISTRIBUTED COGNITION - AN ALTERNATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYZING AND EXPLAINING COLLABORATIVE WORKING	JOURNAL OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	This paper examines the theoretical and practical problems that arise from attempts to develop formal characterizations and explanations of many work activities, in particular, collaborative activities. We argue that even seemingly discrete individual activities occur in, and frequently draw upon a complex network of factors: individual, social and organizational. Similarly, organizational and social constraints and practices impact upon individual cognitive processes and the realization of these in specific tasks. Any adequate characterization of work activities therefore requires the analysis and synthesis of information from these traditionally separate sources. We argue that existing frameworks, emanating separately from the respective disciplines (cognitive, social and organizational) do not present an adequate means of studying the dynamics of collaborative activity in situ. An alternative framework, advocated in this paper, is distributed cognition. Its theoretical basis is outlined together with examples of applied studies of computer-mediated work activities in different organizational settings.
318	distributed	2008	Patel, VL; Zhang, J; Yoskowitz, NA; Green, R; Sayan, OR	Translational cognition for decision support in critical care environments: A review	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	The dynamic and distributed work environment in critical care requires a high level of collaboration among clinical team members and a sophisticated task coordination system to deliver safe, timely and effective care. A complex cognitive system underlies the decision-making process in such cooperative workplaces. This methodological review paper addresses the issues of translating cognitive research to clinical practice with a specific focus on decision-making in critical care, and the role of information and communication technology to aid in such decisions. Examples are drawn from studies of critical care in our own research laboratories. Critical care, in this paper, includes both intensive (inpatient) and emergency (outpatient) care. We define translational cognition as the research on basic and applied cognitive issues that contribute to our understanding of how information is stored, retrieved and used for problem-solving and decision-making. The methods and findings are discussed in the context of constraints on decision-making in real-world complex environments and implications for supporting the design and evaluation of decision support tools for critical care health providers. (c) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
319	distributed	2003	Horsky, J; Kaufman, DR; Oppenheim, MI; Patel, VL	A framework for analyzing the cognitive complexity of computer-assisted clinical ordering	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Computer-assisted provider order entry is a technology that is designed to expedite medical ordering and to reduce the frequency of preventable errors. This paper presents a multifaceted cognitive methodology for the characterization of cognitive demands of a medical information system. Our investigation was informed by the distributed resources (DR) model, a novel approach designed to describe the dimensions of user interfaces that introduce unnecessary cognitive complexity. This method evaluates the relative distribution of external (system) and internal (user) representations embodied in system interaction. We conducted an expert walkthrough evaluation of a commercial order entry system, followed by a simulated clinical ordering task performed by seven clinicians. The DR model was employed to explain variation in user performance and to characterize the relationship of resource distribution and ordering errors. The analysis revealed that the configuration of resources in this ordering application placed unnecessarily heavy cognitive demands on the user, especially on those who lacked a robust conceptual model of the system. The resources model also provided some insight into clinicians' interactive strategies and patterns of associated errors. Implications for user training and interface design based on the principles of human-computer interaction in the medical domain are discussed. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
320	distributed	2008	Barnier, AJ; Sutton, J; Harris, CB; Wilson, RA	A conceptual and empirical framework for the social distribution of cognition: The case of memory	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In this paper, we aim to show that the framework of embedded, distributed, or extended cognition offers new perspectives on social cognition by applying it to one specific domain: the psychology of memory. In making our case, first we specify some key social dimensions of cognitive distribution and some basic distinctions between memory cases, and then describe stronger and weaker versions of distributed remembering in the general distributed cognition framework. Next, we examine studies of social influences on memory in cognitive psychology, and identify the valuable concepts and methods to be extended and embedded in our framework; we focus in particular on three related paradigms: transactive memory, collaborative recall, and social contagion. Finally, we sketch our own early studies of individual and group memory developed within our framework of distributed cognition, on social contagion of autobiographical memories, collaborative flashbulb memories, and memories of high school at a high school reunion. We see two reciprocal benefits of this conceptual and empirical framework to social memory phenomena: that ideas about distributed cognition can be honed against and tested with the help of sophisticated methods in the social-cognitive psychology of memory; and conversely, that a range of social memory phenomena that are as yet poorly understood can be approached afresh with theoretically motivated extensions of existing empirical paradigms. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
321	distributed	1998	Hewitt, J; Scardamalia, M	Design principles for distributed knowledge building processes	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	In this paper we explore various interpretations of the term "distributed cognition," then turn our attention to communities grounded in the practice of collaborative knowledge building. We discuss CSILE (Computer-Supported Intentional Learning Environments), a technology designed to support contributions to a communal database. Shared responsibility for this community resource extends to aspects of school practice typically handled exclusively by teachers, and engagement in improving and connecting the contents of the database makes the process of knowledge building self-sustaining. We discuss knowledge building communities involving students and teachers, and end with discussion of design principles for distributed knowledge building processes.
322	distributed	2008	Keehner, M; Hegarty, M; Cohen, C; Khooshabeh, P; Montello, DR	Spatial Reasoning With External Visualizations: What Matters Is What You See, Not Whether You Interact	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three experiments examined the effects of interactive visualizations and spatial abilities on a task requiring participants to infer and draw cross sections of a three-dimensional (3D) object. The experiments manipulated whether participants could interactively control a virtual 3D visualization of the object while performing the task, and compared participants who were allowed interactive control of the visualization to those who were not allowed control. In Experiment 1, interactivity produced better performance than passive viewing, but the advantage of interactivity disappeared in Experiment 2 when visual input for the two conditions in a yoked design was equalized. In Experiments 2 and 3, differences in how interactive participants manipulated the visualization were large and related to performance. In Experiment 3, non-interactive participants who watched optimal movements of the display performed as well as interactive participants who manipulated the visualization effectively and better than interactive participants who manipulated the visualization ineffectively. Spatial ability made an independent contribution to performance on the spatial reasoning task, but did not predict patterns of interactive behavior. These experiments indicate that providing participants with active control of a computer visualization does not necessarily enhance task performance, whereas seeing the most task-relevant information does, and this is true regardless of whether the task-relevant information is obtained actively or passively.
323	distributed	2010	Grundgeiger, T; Sanderson, P; MacDougall, HG; Venkatesh, B	Interruption Management in the Intensive Care Unit: Predicting Resumption Times and Assessing Distributed Support	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-APPLIED	Interruptions are frequent in many work domains. Researchers in health care have started to study interruptions extensively, but their studies usually do not use a theoretically guided approach. Conversely, researchers conducting theoretically rich laboratory studies on interruptions have not usually investigated how effectively their findings account for humans working in complex systems such as intensive care units. In the current study, we use the memory for goals theory and prospective memory theory to investigate which properties of an interruption influence how long it takes nurses to resume interrupted critical care tasks. We collected data with a mobile eye tracker in an intensive care unit and developed multiple regression models to predict resumption times. In 55.8% of all interruptions there was a finite and therefore analyzable-resumption lag. For these cases, the main regression model explained 30.9% (adjusted R(2)) of the variance. Longer interruptions (beta = .36, p < .001) and changes in physical location due to interruptions (beta = .40, p < .001) lengthened the resumption lag. We also calculated regression models on subsets of the data to investigate the generality of the above findings across different situations. In a further 37.6% of all interruptions, nurses used behavioral strategies that greatly diminished or eliminated individual prospective memory demands caused by interruptions, resulting in no analyzable resumption lag. We introduce a descriptive model that accounts for how nurses' behaviors affect the cognitive demand of resuming an interrupted task. Finally, we discuss how the disruptive effects of interruptions in the intensive care unit could be diminished or prevented.
324	distributed	2007	Hazlehurst, B; McMullen, CK; Gorman, PN	Distributed cognition in the heart room: How situation awareness arises from coordinated communications during cardiac surgery	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	To help ensure successful outcomes of open-heart surgery, surgeon and perfusionist must coordinate their activities during management of cardioplegia. This research aims to understand the basis for this coordination. We employed the framework of distributed cognition and the methodology of cognitive ethnography to describe how cognitive resources are configured and utilized to accomplish successful cardioplegia management. Analysis identified six types of surgeon perfusionist verbal exchange which collectively enable robust system performance through (a) making the current situation clear and mutually understood; (b) making goals and envisioned future situations clear and thereby anticipated; and (c) expanding upon the activity system's knowledge base through discovery and sharing of experience. We argue for the "activity system" as the appropriate unit of analysis, and distributed cognition as a powerful theoretical framework for studying the socio-technical work of health care. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
325	distributed	2001	Kirsh, D	The context of work	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	The question of how to conceive and represent the context of work is explored from the theoretical perspective of distributed cognition. It is argued that to understand the office work context we need to go beyond tracking superficial physical attributes such as who or what is where and when and consider the state of digital resources, people's concepts, task state, social relations, and the local work culture, to name a few. In analyzing an office more deeply, three concepts are especially helpful: entry points, action landscapes, and coordinating mechanisms. An entry point is a structure or cue that represents an invitation to enter an information space or office task. An activity landscape is part mental construct and part physical; it is the space users interactively construct out of the resources they find when trying to accomplish a task. A coordinating mechanism is an artifact, such as a schedule or clock, or an environmental structure such as the layout of papers to be signed, which helps a user manage the complexity of his task. Using these three concepts we can abstract away from many of the surface attributes of work context and define the deep structure of a setting-the invariant structure that many office settings share. A long-term challenge for context-aware computing is to operationalize these analytic concepts.
326	distributed	2010	Theiner, G; Allen, C; Goldstone, RL	Recognizing group cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In this paper, we approach the idea of group cognition from the perspective of the "extended mind" thesis, as a special case of the more general claim that systems larger than the individual human, but containing that human, are capable of cognition (Clark, 2008; Clark & Chalmers, 1998). Instead of deliberating about "the mark of the cognitive" (Adams & Aizawa, 2008), our discussion of group cognition is tied to particular cognitive capacities. We review recent studies of group problem solving and group memory which reveal that specific cognitive capacities that are commonly ascribed to individuals are also aptly ascribed at the level of groups. These case studies show how dense interactions among people within a group lead to both similarity-inducing and differentiating dynamics that affect the group's ability to solve problems. This supports our claim that groups have organization-dependent cognitive capacities that go beyond the simple aggregation of the cognitive capacities of individuals. Group cognition is thus an emergent phenomenon in the sense of Wimsatt (1986). We further argue that anybody who rejects our strategy for showing that cognitive properties can be instantiated at multiple levels in the organizational hierarchy on a priori grounds is a "demergentist," and thus incurs the burden of proof for explaining why cognitive properties are "stuck" at a certain level of organizational structure. Finally, we show that our analysis of group cognition escapes the "coupling-constitution" charge that has been leveled against the extended mind thesis (Adams & Aizawa, 2008). (C) 2010 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
327	distributed	2008	Keil, FC; Stein, C; Webb, L; Billings, VD; Rozenblit, L	Discerning the division of cognitive labor: An emerging understanding of how knowledge is clustered in other minds	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The division of cognitive labor is fundamental to all cultures. Adults have a strong sense of how knowledge is clustered in the world around them and use that sense to access additional information, defer to relevant experts, and ground their own incomplete understandings. One prominent way of clustering knowledge is by disciplines similar to those that comprise the natural and social sciences. Seven studies explored an emerging sense of these discipline-based ways of clustering of knowledge. Even 5-year-olds could cluster knowledge in a manner roughly corresponding to the departments of natural and social sciences in a university, doing so without any explicit awareness of those academic disciplines. But this awareness is fragile early on and competes with other ways of clustering knowledge. Over the next few years, children come to see discipline-based clusters as having a privileged status, one that may be linked to increasingly sophisticated assumptions about essences for natural kinds. Possible mechanisms for this developmental shift are examined.
328	distributed	2009	Moussaid, M; Garnier, S; Theraulaz, G; Helbing, D	Collective Information Processing and Pattern Formation in Swarms, Flocks, and Crowds	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The spontaneous organization of collective activities in animal groups and societies has attracted a considerable amount of attention over the last decade. This kind of coordination often permits group-living species to achieve collective tasks that are far beyond single individuals' capabilities. In particular, a key benefit lies in the integration of partial knowledge of the environment at the collective level. In this contribution, we discuss various self-organization phenomena in animal swarms and human crowds from the point of view of information exchange among individuals. In particular, we provide a general description of collective dynamics across species and introduce a classification of these dynamics not only with respect to the way information is transferred among individuals but also with regard to the knowledge processing at the collective level. Finally, we highlight the fact that the individual's ability to learn from past experiences can have a feedback effect on the collective dynamics, as experienced with the development of behavioral conventions in pedestrian crowds.
329	distributed	2006	Cohen, T; Blatter, B; Almeida, C; Shortliffe, E; Patel, V	A cognitive blueprint of collaboration in context: Distributed cognition in the psychiatric emergency department	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	Objective: The complex cognitive processes that underlie human performance in 'messy' contexts such as critical care medicine suggest a need for a cognitive model with broad scope to support the understanding of error in such domains. The objective of this research is to characterize the cognition that underlies patient care in the domain of emergency psychiatry in order to enhance the understanding of error in this context. Methods and materials: The theoretical framework of distributed cognition has been used to study collaborative decision-making in a number of similarly complex environments such as airline cockpits and air traffic control towers. These environments share certain characteristics with the critical care domain: the work is collaborative in nature, it is supported by artifacts that can be studied directly, and the consequences of error are dire. However, the nature of the work in this domain and the artifacts used to support it are unique. The application of the theoretical constructs of distributed cognition to this context is necessary in order to characterize the collective thinking that underlies critical care. Our research uses a combination of ethnographic and interview data to derive a distributed cognitive model of the psychiatric emergency department (PED), a high volume clinical unit dealing exclusively with the acute phases of psychiatric crises. The dynamics of workflow within the department are complex: several types of clinician collaborate by forming temporary multidisciplinary teams that attach to and manage particular patients. The component members of these teams change over time. Results: Using the theoretical framework of distributed cognition, we interpreted the collected data to derive a cognitive model of the distribution of work and information flow in the PED. This modeling process has revealed several latent flaws in the system related to the underlying distribution of cognition across teams, time, space and artifacts. Conclusions: The characterization of this distribution has enhanced our understanding of the cognitive dynamics underlying error in this environment, and will serve to guide future research on error management in the ED and inform the development of context-appropriate error- management systems. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
330	distributed	2010	Mundy, P; Jarrold, W	Infant joint attention, neural networks and social cognition	NEURAL NETWORKS	Neural network models of attention can provide a unifying approach to the study of human cognitive and emotional development (Posner & Rothbart, 2007). In this paper we argue that a neural network approach to the infant development of joint attention can inform our understanding of the nature of human social learning, symbolic thought process and social cognition. At its most basic, joint attention involves the capacity to coordinate one's own visual attention with that of another person. We propose that joint attention development involves increments in the capacity to engage in simultaneous or parallel processing of information about one's own attention and the attention of other people. Infant practice with joint attention is both a consequence and an organizer of the development of a distributed and integrated brain network involving frontal and parietal cortical systems. This executive distributed network first serves to regulate the capacity of infants to respond to and direct the overt behavior of other people in order to share experience with others through the social coordination of visual attention. In this paper we describe this parallel and distributed neural network model of joint attention development and discuss two hypotheses that stem from this model. One is that activation of this distributed network during coordinated attention enhances the depth of information processing and encoding beginning in the first year of life. We also propose that with development, joint attention becomes internalized as the capacity to socially coordinate mental attention to internal representations. As this occurs the executive joint attention network makes vital contributions to the development of human symbolic thinking and social cognition. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
331	distributed	2007	Greeno, JG; van de Sande, C	Perspectival understanding of conceptions and conceptual growth in interaction	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	We propose a bridge between cognitive and sociocultural approaches that is anchored on the sociocultural side by distributed cognition and participation, and on the cognitiveside by information structures. We interpret information structures as the contents of distributed knowing and interaction in activity systems. Conceptual understanding is considered as achievement of discourse in activity systems, and conceptual growth is change in discourse practice that supports more effective conceptual understanding. We also introduce a concept of perspectival understanding, in which accounts of cognition, including conceptual understanding, include points of view. This concept generalizes the concept of schema by hypothesizing that a perspectival understanding can be constructed by constraint satisfaction when a sufficient schema is not known or recognized. We provide an example in which perspectival understanding was jointly constructed, illustrating an interactional process we call "constructive listening".
332	distributed	2013	Dillenbourg, P	Design for classroom orchestration	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	0
333	distributed	2004	Schrire, S	Interaction and cognition in asynchronous computer conferencing	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	This paper is based on a multiple-case study of the learning process in three asynchronous computer conferences. The conferences were part of the distance learning component in doctoral degree courses in computing technology in education offered at an American university. The conferences were analyzed from a number of perspectives, the emphasis in this paper being on the dimensions of interaction and cognition. Although similar interaction patterns were identified in the three conferences, each conference also showed distinctive patterns, which were related to factors such as instructor moderation, structuring of the instructional task and the emergence of student moderation of the discussion in specific threads. Three models were used to evaluate cognition: Bloom's Taxonomy (Bloom, Engelhart, Furst, Hill, & Krathwohl, Handbook 1, Cognitive Domain, Longman, London, 1956), the SOLO Taxonomy (Biggs & Collis, Evaluating the Quality of Learning: The SOLO Taxonomy, Academic Press, New York, 1982) and the Practical Inquiry Model of Cognitive Presence (Garrison, Anderson & Archer, The American Journal of Distance Education 15(1)7, 2001). Correspondences were found among the three models and all three conferences were characterized by higher-order thinking. When higher-order thinking was defined in terms of the distributed cognition occurring during practical inquiry, the advanced phases of cognition were found to be related to synergistic interaction in the conference threads. The findings serve to define the knowledge-building processes occurring in asynchronous computer conferencing. They also lend support to views of learning as dialogical and to social constructivist approaches to learning and teaching.
334	distributed	2007	Kravchenko, AV	Essential properties of language, or, why language is not a code	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Despite a strong tradition of viewing coded equivalence as the underlying principle of linguistic semiotics, it lacks the power needed to understand and explain language as an empirical phenomenon characterized by complex dynamics. Applying the biology of cognition to the nature of the human cognitive/linguistic capacity as rooted in the dynamics of reciprocal causality between an organism and the world, we can show language to be connotational rather than denotational. This leaves no room for the various 'code-models' of language exploited in traditional linguistics. Bio-cognitive analysis leads to deeper insights into the essence of language as a biologically based, cognitively motivated, circularly organized serniotic activity in a consensual domain of interactions aimed at adapting to, and, ultimately, gaining control of the environment. The understanding that cognition is grounded in the dynamics of biological self-organization fits both the integrational model of communication and distributed cognition. A short discussion of the key notions of representation, sign and signification, interpretation, intentionality, communication, and reciprocal causality is offered, showing that the notion of 'code' is only misleadingly applied to natural language. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
335	distributed	2007	Love, N	Are languages digital codes?	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Language use is commonly understood to involve digital signalling, which imposes certain constraints and restrictions on linguistic communication. Two papers by Ross [Ross, D., 2004. Metalinguistic signalling for coordination amongst social agents. Language Sciences 26,621-642; Ross, D., this issue. H. sapiens as ecologically special: what does language contribute? Language Sciences 29] are discussed in this connection. It is evident that the particular limitations of digital language that Ross is interested in depend on the claim not just that language is (partly) digital but that languages are digital codes. But it is questionable whether languages are codes at all. The idea that they are may derive some force from the fact that the most commonplace and familiar semiotic devices we call 'codes' are digital in character. If codes are digital and linguistic units are in some sense or degree digital, that may explain the temptation to think of languages as digital codes. But closer examination of the digitality of linguistic units offers no support for the digital-code idea, for language use, it is argued, is in its essence fundamentally analogical. (c) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
336	distributed	2010	Andrews, C; Endert, A; North, C	Space to Think: Large, High-Resolution Displays for Sensemaking	CHI2010: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 28TH ANNUAL CHI CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1-4	Space supports human cognitive abilities in a myriad of ways. The note attached to the side of the monitor, the papers spread out on the desk, diagrams scrawled on a whiteboard, and even the keys left out on the counter are all examples of using space to recall, reveal relationships, and think. Technological advances have made it possible to construct large display environments in which space has real meaning. This paper examines how increased space affects the way displays are regarded and used within the context of the cognitively demanding task of sensemaking. A pair of studies were conducted demonstrating how the spatial environment supports sensemaking by becoming part of the distributed cognitive process, providing both external memory and a semantic layer.
337	distributed	2002	O'Hara, KP; Taylor, A; Newman, W; Sellen, AJ	Understanding the materiality of writing from multiple sources	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Writing research has typically focussed on the text production elements of writing. Many everyday writing tasks, however, cannot be characterized simply in terms of text production since they often involve the use of source materials to support the composition process. As such, these tasks are better thought of as hybrid tasks. Such hybrid tasks have been given relatively little attention in the literature and what little work has been done has taken a purely cognitive approach that downplays the material context within which the task takes place. Following Haas' critique of mainstream writing research which advocated the need to consider the material tools and artefacts in theories of writing, this paper takes a similar approach in relation to the hybrid tasks of writing while reading from multiple sources. A study is presented that explores a range of everyday writing from multiple sources in their real-world contexts. The study highlights a number of important characteristics of the interaction with the material artefacts used during these tasks and the impact that these have on the underlying cognitive processes. The hope is that these will begin to offer some grounding on which future theoretical understanding of these hybrid tasks can build, as well as providing useful insights into the design of technologies to support these tasks. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.
338	distributed	2008	Hazlehurst, B; Gorman, PN; McMullen, CK	Distributed cognition: An alternative model of cognition for medical informatics	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Medical informatics has been guided by an individual-centered model of human cognition, inherited from classical theory of mind, in which knowledge, problem-solving, and information-processing responsible for intelligent behavior all derive from the inner workings of an individual agent. Objectives and results: In this paper we argue that medical informatics commitment to the classical model of cognition conflates the processing performed by the minds of individual agents with the processing performed by the larger distributed activity systems within which individuals operate. We review trends in cognitive science that seek to close the gap between general-purpose models of cognition and applied considerations of real-world human performance. One outcome is the theory of distributed cognition, in which the unit of analysis for understanding performance is the activity system which comprises a group of human actors, their tools and environment, and is organized by a particular history of goal-directed action and interaction. Conclusion: We describe and argue for the relevance of distributed cognition to medical informatics, both for the study of human performance in healthcare and for the design of technologies meant to enhance this performance. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
339	distributed	2003	Giere, RN; Moffatt, B	Distributed cognition: Where the cognitive and the social merge	SOCIAL STUDIES OF SCIENCE	Among the many contested boundaries in science studies is that between the cognitive and the social. Here, we are concerned to question this boundary from a perspective within the cognitive sciences based on the notion of distributed cognition. We first present two of many contemporary sources of the notion of distributed cognition, one from the study of artificial neural networks and one from cognitive anthropology. We then proceed to reinterpret two well-known essays by Bruno Latour, 'Visualization and Cognition: Thinking with Eyes and Hands' and 'Circulating Reference: Sampling the Soil in the Amazon Forest'. In both cases we find the cognitive and the social merged in a system of distributed cognition without any appeal to agonistic encounters. For us, results do not come to be regarded as veridical because they are widely accepted; they come to be widely accepted because, in the context of an appropriate distributed cognitive system, their apparent veracity can be made evident to anyone with the capacity to understand the workings of the system.
340	distributed	2014	Stanton, NA	Representing distributed cognition in complex systems: how a submarine returns to periscope depth	ERGONOMICS	This paper presents the Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) method as a means of modelling distributed cognition in systems. The method comprises three network models (i.e. task, social and information) and their combination. This method was applied to the interactions between the sound room and control room in a submarine, following the activities of returning the submarine to periscope depth. This paper demonstrates three main developments in EAST. First, building the network models directly, without reference to the intervening methods. Second, the application of analysis metrics to all three networks. Third, the combination of the aforementioned networks in different ways to gain a broader understanding of the distributed cognition. Analyses have shown that EAST can be used to gain both qualitative and quantitative insights into distributed cognition. Future research should focus on the analyses of network resilience and modelling alternative versions of a system. Practitioner summary: This paper presents a practical method for analysing and evaluating distributed cognition in complex systems. The Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) method presents task, social and information network models both individually and combined. The network models can be analysed qualitatively by visual inspection and quantitatively using network analysis metrics.
341	distributed	2009	Galantucci, B	Experimental Semiotics: A New Approach for Studying Communication as a Form of Joint Action	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In the last few years, researchers have begun to investigate the emergence of novel forms of human communication in the laboratory. I survey this growing line of research, which may be called experimental semiotics, from three distinct angles. First, I situate the new approach in its theoretical and historical context. Second, I review a sample of studies that exemplify experimental semiotics. Third, I present an empirical study that illustrates how the new approach can help us understand the socio-cognitive underpinnings of human communication. The main conclusion of the paper will be that, by reproducing micro samples of historical processes in the laboratory, experimental semiotics offers new powerful tools for investigating human communication as a form of joint action.
342	distributed	2007	Kim, B; Reeves, TC	Reframing research on learning with technology: in search of the meaning of cognitive tools	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	Previous research and development with cognitive tools has been limited by an inadequate conceptualization of the complexity underlying their nature and affordances for supporting learning and performance. This paper provides a new perspective on cognitive tools through the lens of the theories of distributed cognition and expertise. The learner, tool, and activity form a joint learning system, and the expertise in the world should be reflected not only in the tool but also in the learning activity within which learners make use of the tool. This enhanced perspective is used to clarify the nature of cognitive tools and distinguish them from other types of computer tools used in learning contexts. We have classified cognitive tools considering how expertise is classified: domain-independent (general) cognitive tools, domain-generic cognitive tools, and domain-specific cognitive tools. The implications are presented in reference to research, development, and practice of cognitive tools. The capabilities of cognitive tools should be differentiated from those of the human, but regarded as part of the system of expertise. Cognitive tools should be accompanied by appropriate learning activities, and relevant learner performance should then be assessed in the context of tool use.
343	distributed	2003	Gorman, PN; Lavelle, MB; Ash, JS	Order creation and communication in healthcare	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	Objectives: The aim of this paper is to examine the adequacy of the concept of Physician Order Entry (POE) as a model for clinical systems, and to suggest an alternative understanding of the order creation and communication process. Methods: The study is based on an interpretative analysis of POE as a model for clinical systems and the results of our recent fieldwork. Results: Observations from our recent fieldwork suggest that orders, like patient care in general, emerge from interactions among patients, physicians, nurses, family members, and others, employing a variety of technologies and information resources in the process. Orders as we hove observed them originate, are negotiated, and are carried out in a dynamically evolving group with fluctuating membership and shifting role responsibilities. Furthermore, orders by themselves represent only a partial picture of what is done for the patient. Conclusion: We argue that information systems are more likely to be helpful if they accommodate and facilitate POE as a multidisciplinary collaboration effort and fit better into the larger system of patient care.
344	distributed	2013	Flynn, EG; Laland, KN; Kendal, RL; Kendal, JR	Target Article with Commentaries: Developmental niche construction	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Niche construction is the modification of components of the environment through an organism's activities. Humans modify their environments mainly through ontogenetic and cultural processes, and it is this reliance on learning, plasticity and culture that lends human niche construction a special potency. In this paper we aim to facilitate discussion between researchers interested in niche construction and those interested in human cognitive development by highlighting some of the related processes. We discuss the transmission of culturally relevant information, how the human mind is a symbol-generating and artefact-devising system, and how these processes are bi-directional, with infants and children both being directed, and directing, their own development. We reflect on these in the light of four approaches: natural pedagogy, activity theory, distributed cognition and situated learning. Throughout, we highlight pertinent examples in non-humans that parallel or further explicate the processes discussed. Finally we offer three future directions; two involving the use of new techniques in the realms of neuroscience and modelling, and the third suggesting exploration of changes in the effects of niche construction across the lifespan.
345	distributed	2012	Krueger, J	Seeing mind in action	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Much recent work on social cognition and empathy in philosophy of mind and cognitive science has been guided by the assumption that minds are composed of intracranial phenomena, perceptually inaccessible and thus unobservable to everyone but their owners. I challenge this claim. I defend the view that at least some mental states and processes-or at least some parts of some mental states and processes-are at times visible, capable of being directly perceived by others. I further argue that, despite its initial implausibility, this view receives robust support from several strands of empirical research.
346	distributed	2008	Sharp, H; Robinson, H	Collaboration and co-ordination in mature eXtreme programming teams	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Mature eXtreme programming (XP) teams are highly collaborative and self-organising. In previous studies, we have observed that these teams rely on two apparently simple mechanisms of co-ordination and collaboration: story cards and the Wall. Story cards capture and embody the user stories which form the basis of implementation, while the Wall is a physical space used to organise and display the cards being implemented during the current development cycle (called an iteration). In this paper, we analyse the structure and use of story cards and the Wall in three mature XP teams, using a distributed cognition approach. The teams work in different commercial organisations developing different systems, yet we find significant similarities between their use of these two artefacts. Although simple, teams use the cards and the Wall in sophisticated ways to represent and communicate information that is vital to support their activities. We discuss the significance of the physical medium for the story cards and the Wall in an XP team and discuss the considerations that need to be taken into account for the design of technology to support the teams. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
347	distributed	2006	Furniss, D; Blandford, A	Understanding emergency medical dispatch in terms of distributed cognition: a case study	ERGONOMICS	Emergency medical dispatch (EMD) is typically a team activity, requiring fluid coordination and communication between team members. Such working situations have often been described in terms of distributed cognition (DC), a framework for understanding team working. DC takes account of factors such as shared representations and artefacts to support reasoning about team working. Although the language of DC has been developed over several years, little attention has been paid to developing a methodology or reusable representation which supports reasoning about an interactive system from a DC perspective. We present a case study in which we developed a method for constructing a DC account of team working in the domain of EMD, focusing on the use of the method for describing an existing EMD work system, identifying sources of weakness in that system, and reasoning about the likely consequences of redesign of the system. The resulting DC descriptions have yielded new insights into the design of EMD work and of tools to support that work within a large EMD centre.
348	distributed	2004	Nemeth, CP; Cook, RI; O'Connor, M; Klock, PA	Using cognitive artifacts to understand distributed cognition	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART A-SYSTEMS AND HUMANS	Studies of patient safety have identified gaps in current work including the need for research about communication and information sharing among healthcare providers. They have also encouraged the use of decision support tools to improve human performance. Distributed cognition is the shared awareness of goals, plans, and details that no single individual grasps. Cognitive artifacts are objects such as: schedules, display boards, lists, and worksheets that form part of a distributed cognition. Cognitive artifacts that are related to operating room (OR) scheduling include: the availabilities; sheet, master schedule, OR graph, and OR board. All provide a "way in" to understand how teams in the acute care setting dynamically plan and manage the balance between demand for care and the resources available to provide it. This work has import for the way that information technology supports the organization, management, and use of healthcare resources. Better computer-supported cognitive artifacts will benefit patient safety by making teamwork processes, planning, communications, and resource management more resilient.
349	distributed	2014	Hutchins, E	The cultural ecosystem of human cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Everybody knows that humans are cultural animals. Although this fact is universally acknowledged, many opportunities to exploit it are overlooked. In this article, I propose shifting our attention from local examples of extended mind to the cultural-cognitive ecosystems within which human cognition is embedded. I conclude by offering a set of conjectures about the features of cultural-cognitive ecosystems.
350	distributed	2011	Collins, SA; Bakken, S; Vawdrey, DK; Coiera, E; Currie, L	Model development for EHR interdisciplinary information exchange of ICU common goals	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Purpose: Effective interdisciplinary exchange of patient information is an essential component of safe, efficient, and patient-centered care in the intensive care unit (ICU). Frequent handoffs of patient care, high acuity of patient illness, and the increasing amount of available data complicate information exchange. Verbal communication can be affected by interruptions and time limitations. To supplement verbal communication, many ICUs rely on documentation in electronic health records (EHRs) to reduce errors of omission and information loss. The purpose of this study was to develop a model of EHR interdisciplinary information exchange of ICU common goals. Methods: The theoretical frameworks of distributed cognition and the clinical communication space were integrated and a previously published categorization of verbal information exchange was used. 59.5 h of interdisciplinary rounds in a neurovascular ICU were observed and five interviews and one focus group with ICU nurses and physicians were conducted. Results: Current documentation tools in the ICU were not sufficient to capture the nurses' and physicians' collaborative decision-making and verbal communication of goal-directed actions and interactions. Clinicians perceived the EHR to be inefficient for information retrieval, leading to a further reliance on verbal information exchange. Conclusion: The model suggests that EHRs should support: (1) information tools for the explicit documentation of goals, interventions, and assessments with synthesized and summarized information outputs of events and updates; and (2) messaging tools that support collaborative decision-making and patient safety double checks that currently occur between nurses and physicians in the absence of EHR support. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
351	distributed	2008	Hakimzada, AF; Green, RA; Sayan, OR; Zhang, JJ; Patel, VL	The nature and occurrence of registration errors in the emergency department	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Research into the nature and occurrence of medical errors has shown that these often result from a combination of factors that lead to the breakdown of workflow. Nowhere is this more critical than in the emergency department (ED), where the focus of clinical decisions is on the timely evaluation and stabilization of patients. This paper reports on the nature of errors and their implications for patient safety in an adult ED, using methods of ethnographic observation, interviews, and think-aloud protocols. Data were analyzed using modified "grounded theory," which refers to a theory developed inductively from a body of data. Analysis revealed four classes of errors, relating to errors of misidentification, ranging from multiple medical record numbers, wrong patient identification or address, and in one case, switching of one patient's identification information with those of another. Further analysis traced the root of the errors to ED registration. These results indicate that the nature of errors in the emergency department are complex, multi-layered and result from an intertwined web of activity, in which stress in the work environment, high patient volume and the tendency to adopt shortcuts play a significant role. The need for information technology (IT) solutions to these problems as well as the impact of alternative policies is discussed. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
352	distributed	2002	Giere, RN	Discussion note: Distributed cognition in epistemic cultures	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	In Epistemic Cultures (1999), Karin Knorr Cetina argues that different scientific fields exhibit different epistemic cultures. She claims that in high energy physics (HEP) individual persons are displaced as epistemic subjects in favor of experiments themselves. In molecular biology (MB), by contrast, individual persons remain the primary epistemic subjects. Using Ed Hutchins' (1995) account of navigation aboard a traditional US Navy ship as a prototype, I argue that both HEP and MB exhibit forms of distributed cognition. That is, in both fields cognition is distributed across individual persons and complex artifacts. The cognitive system producing the knowledge is heterogeneous. Nevertheless, in both fields we can reserve epistemic agency for the human components of these systems. We do not need to postulate new distributed cognitive agents, let alone ones exhibiting new forms of consciousness.
353	distributed	2009	Galantucci, B; Sebanz, N	Joint Action: Current Perspectives	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In recent years researchers have begun to investigate how the perceptual, motor and cognitive activities of two or more individuals become organized into coordinated action. In the first part of this introduction we identify three common threads among the ten papers of this special issue that exemplify this new line of research. First, all of the papers are grounded in the experimental study of online interactions between two or more individuals. Second, albeit at different levels of analysis, the contributions focus on the mechanisms supporting joint action. Third, many of the papers investigate empirically the pre-requisites for the highly sophisticated forms of joint action that are typical of humans. In the second part of the introduction, we summarize each of the papers, highlighting more specific connections among them.
354	distributed	2012	Bender, A; Beller, S	Nature and culture of finger counting: Diversity and representational effects of an embodied cognitive tool	COGNITION	Studies like the one conducted by Domahs et al. (2010, in Cognition) corroborate that finger counting habits affect how numbers are processed, and legitimize the assumption that this effect is culturally modulated. The degree of cultural diversity in finger counting, however, has been grossly underestimated in the field at large, which, in turn, has restricted research questions and designs. In this paper, we demonstrate that fingers as a tool for counting are not only naturally available, but are also and crucially so culturally encoded. To substantiate this, we outline the variability in finger counting and illustrate each of its types with instances from the literature. We argue that the different types of finger counting all constitute distinct representational systems, and we use their properties-dimensionality, dimensional representation, base and sub-base values, extendibility and extent, sign count, and regularity to devise a typology of such systems. This allows us to explore representational effects, that is, the cognitive implications these properties may have, for instance, for the efficiency of information encoding and representation, ease of learning and mastering the system, or memory retrieval and cognitive load. We then highlight the ambivalent consequences arising from structural inconsistencies between finger counting and other modes of number representation like verbal or notational systems, and we discuss how this informs questions on the evolution and development of counting systems. Based on these analyses, we suggest some directions for future research in the field of embodied cognition that would profit substantially from taking into account the cultural diversity in finger counting. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
355	distributed	2010	Kittur, A; Kraut, RE	Beyond Wikipedia: Coordination and Conflict in Online Production Groups	2010 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	Online production groups have the potential to transform the way that knowledge is produced and disseminated. One of the most widely used forms of online production is the wiki, which has been used in domains ranging from science to education to enterprise. We examined the development of and interactions between coordination and conflict in a sample of 6811 wiki production groups. We investigated the influence of four coordination mechanisms: intra-article communication, inter-user communication, concentration of workgroup structure, and policy and procedures. We also examined the growth of conflict, finding the density of users in an information space to be a significant predictor. Finally, we analyzed the effectiveness of the four coordination mechanisms on managing conflict, finding differences in how each scaled to large numbers of contributors. Our results suggest that coordination mechanisms effective for managing conflict are not always the same as those effective for managing task quality, and that designers must take into account the social benefits of coordination mechanisms in addition to their production benefits.
356	distributed	1998	Derry, SJ; DuRussel, LA; O'Donnell, AM	Individual and distributed cognitions in interdisciplinary teamwork: A developing case study and emerging theory	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	We present a developing distributed cognition theory of interdisciplinary collaboration that incorporates concepts from both situated cognition and information-processing theory. This theoretical framework is being refined as it is used for analyzing interdisciplinary collaboration within the National Institute for Science Education (NISE). Our analyses are intended to improve scientific understanding of collaborative processes that influence productivity and quality of interdisciplinary work within the NISE and beyond. A critical group meeting in the early development of one interdisciplinary working team is analyzed using language and ideas from our theoretical perspective.
357	distributed	2012	Rajkomar, A; Blandford, A	Understanding infusion administration in the ICU through Distributed Cognition	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	To understand how healthcare technologies are used in practice and evaluate them, researchers have argued for adopting the theoretical framework of Distributed Cognition (DC). This paper describes the methods and results of a study in which a DC methodology, Distributed Cognition for Teamwork (DiCoT), was applied to study the use of infusion pumps by nurses in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Data was gathered through ethnographic observations and interviews. Data analysis consisted of constructing the representational models of DiCoT, focusing on information flows, physical layouts, social structures and artefacts. The findings show that there is significant distribution of cognition in the ICU: socially, among nurses; physically, through the material environment; and through technological artefacts. The DiCoT methodology facilitated the identification of potential improvements that could increase the safety and efficiency of nurses' interactions with infusion technology. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
358	distributed	2010	Saitwal, H; Feng, XA; Walji, M; Patel, V; Zhang, JJ	Assessing performance of an Electronic Health Record (EHR) using Cognitive Task Analysis	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Many Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems fail to provide user-friendly interfaces due to the lack of systematic consideration of human-centered computing issues. Such interfaces can be improved to provide easy to use, easy to learn, and error-resistant EHR systems to the users. Objective: To evaluate the usability of an EHR system and suggest areas of improvement in the user interface. Methods: The user interface of the AHLTA (Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application) was analyzed using the Cognitive Task Analysis (CTA) method called GOMS (Goals, Operators, Methods, and Selection rules) and an associated technique called KLM (Keystroke Level Model). The GOMS method was used to evaluate the AHLTA user interface by classifying each step of a given task into Mental (Internal) or Physical (External) operators. This analysis was performed by two analysts independently and the inter-rater reliability was computed to verify the reliability of the GOMS method. Further evaluation was performed using KLM to estimate the execution time required to perform the given task through application of its standard set of operators. Results: The results are based on the analysis of 14 prototypical tasks performed by AHLTA users. The results show that on average a user needs to go through 106 steps to complete a task. To perform all 14 tasks, they would spend about 22 min (independent of system response time) for data entry, of which 11 min are spent on more effortful mental operators. The inter-rater reliability analysis performed for all 14 taskswas 0.8 (kappa), indicating good reliability of the method. Conclusion: This paper empirically reveals and identifies the following finding related to the performance of AHLTA: (1) large number of average total steps to complete common tasks, (2) high average execution time and (3) large percentage of mental operators. The user interface can be improved by reducing (a) the total number of steps and (b) the percentage of mental effort, required for the tasks. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
359	distributed	2010	Walker, GH; Stanton, NA; Baber, C; Wells, L; Gibson, H; Salmon, P; Jenkins, D	From ethnography to the EAST method: A tractable approach for representing distributed cognition in Air Traffic Control	ERGONOMICS	Command and control is a generic activity involving the exercise of authority over assigned resources, combined with planning, coordinating and controlling how those resources are used. The challenge for understanding this type of activity is that it is not often amenable to the conventional experimental/methodological approach. Command and control tends to be multi-faceted (so requires more than one method), is made up of interacting socio and technical elements (so requires a systemic approach) and exhibits aggregate behaviours that emerge from these interactions (so requires methods that go beyond reductionism). In these circumstances a distributed cognition approach is highly appropriate yet the existing ethnographic methods make it difficult to apply and, for non-specialist audiences, sometimes difficult to meaningfully interpret. The Event Analysis for Systemic Teamwork method is put forward as a means of working from a distributed cognition perspective but in a way that goes beyond ethnography. A worked example from Air Traffic Control is used to illustrate how the language of social science can be translated into the language of systems analysis. Statement of Relevance: Distributed cognition provides a highly appropriate conceptual response to complex work settings such as Air Traffic Control. This paper deals with how to realise those benefits in practice without recourse to problematic ethnographic techniques.
360	distributed	2001	Lowyck, J; Poysa, J	Design of collaborative learning environments	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	Designing collaborative learning environments is dependent upon the descriptive knowledge base on learning and instruction. Firstly. the evolution in conceptions of design towards collaborative learning is described., starting from designing as an intuitive behaviour. Secondly. collaborative learning is described from different angles, like individuals-in-context, learner communities. including motivational factors and distributed cognition. It is evidenced that the adequate use of collaborative learning settings may contribute to the learning quality. Thirdly, the implications of collaborative theories on instructional design are outlined, centred around: student, knowledge, assessment and community. The interplay between these perspectives is challenged in new models of (co) design. In the conclusion, an interactive approach of designing environments is advocated. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
361	distributed	2012	Lajoie, SP; Lu, JY	Supporting collaboration with technology: does shared cognition lead to co-regulation in medicine?	METACOGNITION AND LEARNING	The theoretical distinctions between metacognition, self-regulation and self-regulated learning are often blurred which makes the definition of co-regulation in group learning situations even more difficult. We have started to explore co-regulation in the context of decision making in simulated emergencies where medical teams work together to manage patient cases. Our earlier work has described the relationship between collaborative decision-making in this context as well as discourse patterns that emerge in a simulated medical emergency (Lu & Lajoie, 2008). This paper examines the interactions that occur during this simulation that reflect the relationship between co-regulation and medical decision-making. There are two collaborative learning conditions, a traditional situation where the instructor facilitates collaboration by using a whiteboard to document the group's construction of a medical argument (the traditional whiteboard condition, TW). The second condition uses technology to facilitate the collaboration, where individuals use laptops and an interactive whiteboard (IW) where they can interact with the problem list as it is being created. Our assumption was that the IW would facilitate communication beyond the teacher-student, to include student-student both within and between the various subgroups. The IW group could document their medical arguments by using a structured template for constructing, annotating and sharing arguments. We found that participants in the IW condition differed from the TW condition in that they engaged in more adaptive decision-making behavior early on in the intervention. Similar overall levels of metacognitive activity were found in both conditions but the pattern and timing of metacognitive categories varied. Specifically, the IW group engaged in more planning and orienting than the TW group at the outset of the problem. Early engagement and co-regulation occurred in the IW group which led to shared understandings and subsequently to effective patient management in latter sessions (11.5% vs. 3.6% in TW). Technology supported greater metacognitive activity overall (44% vs 29% in the non supported group). Furthermore, technology facilitated greater planning (23% vs. 10%) and orienting (10% vs 1%) early in the medical problem solving activity. We refer to specific indicators in the discourse that help operationalize the concept of co-regulation.
362	distributed	2009	Nersessian, NJ	How Do Engineering Scientists Think? Model-Based Simulation in Biomedical Engineering Research Laboratories	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Designing, building, and experimenting with physical simulation models are central problem-solving practices in the engineering sciences. Model-based simulation is an epistemic activity that includes exploration, generation and testing of hypotheses, explanation, and inference. This paper argues that to interpret and understand how these simulation models function in creating knowledge and technologies requires construing problem solving as accomplished by a researcher-artifact system. It draws on and further develops the framework of "distributed cognition" to interpret data collected in ethnographic and cognitive-historical studies of two biomedical engineering research laboratories, and articulates the notion of distributed model-based cognition to answer the question posed in the title.
363	distributed	2009	Cowley, SJ	Distributed language and dynamics INTRODUCTION	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	Language is coordination. Pursuing this, the present Special Issue of Pragmatics & Cognition challenges two widely held positions. First, the papers reject the claim that language is essentially 'symbolic'. Second, they deny that minds (or brains) represent verbal patterns. Rather, language is social, individual, and contributes the feeling of thinking. Simply, it is distributed. Elucidating this claim, the opening papers report empirically-based work on the anticipatory dynamics of reading, their cognitive consequences, Shakespearean theatre, what images evoke, and insight problem-solving. Having given reasons for rejecting linguistic autonomy, the papers turn to theory building. Initially, attention is given to a possible origin for semiotic cognition. Then, it is claimed that language functions by realizing values. Next, it is argued that human dynamics are co-regulated by cultural and biological symbols. Finally, in a review article, the distributed view of language is used to contrast Clark's (2008) organism-centered cognition with what is here called ecologically extended cognition.
364	distributed	2013	Glaveanu, VP	Rewriting the Language of Creativity: The Five A's Framework	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	For the past 5 decades the psychology of creativity has been influenced by what is known as the 4 P's of creative expression: person, process, product, and press. This conceptual schema, initially proposed by Rhodes (1961), helped researchers structure their thinking about the phenomenon. However, it also supported an individualistic, static, and oftentimes disjointed vision of creativity. The present article aims to rewrite this fundamental language of the discipline by using terms that explicitly endorse a systemic, contextual, and dynamic approach. The 5 A's framework- actor, action, artifact, audience, affordances- is grounded in current literature from sociocultural and ecological psychology as well as theories of the distributed mind and tries to achieve a more comprehensive and unitary perspective on creativity. Several theoretical, methodological, and practical implications are considered.
365	distributed	2013	Kirsh, D	Embodied Cognition and the Magical Future of Interaction Design	ACM TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTER-HUMAN INTERACTION	The theory of embodied cognition can provide HCI practitioners and theorists with new ideas about interaction and new principles for better designs. I support this claim with four ideas about cognition: (1) interacting with tools changes the way we think and perceive - tools, when manipulated, are soon absorbed into the body schema, and this absorption leads to fundamental changes in the way we perceive and conceive of our environments; (2) we think with our bodies not just with our brains; (3) we know more by doing than by seeing - there are times when physically performing an activity is better than watching someone else perform the activity, even though our motor resonance system fires strongly during other person observation; (4) there are times when we literally think with things. These four ideas have major implications for interaction design, especially the design of tangible, physical, context aware, and telepresence systems.
366	distributed	2011	Galantucci, B; Garrod, S	Experimental semiotics: a review	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In the last few years a new line of research has appeared in the literature. This line of research, which may be referred to as experimental semiotics (ES; Galantucci, 2009; Galantucci and Garrod, 2010), focuses on the experimental investigation of novel forms of human communication. In this review we will (a) situate ES in its conceptual context, (b) illustrate the main varieties of studies thus far conducted by experimental semioticians, (c) illustrate three main themes of investigation which have emerged within this line of research, and (d) consider implications of this work for cognitive neuroscience.
367	distributed	2009	Walsh, MM; Anderson, JR	The strategic nature of changing your mind	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	in two experiments, we studied how people's strategy choices emerge through an initial and then a more considered evaluation of available strategies. The experiments employed a computer-based paradigm where participants solved multiplication problems using mental and calculator solutions. In addition to recording responses and solution times, we gathered data on mouse cursor movements. Participants' motor behavior was revealing: although people rapidly initiated movement to the calculator box or the answer input box, they frequently changed their minds and went to the other box. Movement initiation direction depended on problem difficulty and calculator responsiveness. Ultimate strategy selection also depended on these factors, but was further influenced by movement initiation direction. We conclude that strategy selection is iterative, as revealed by these differences between early cursor movement and eventual strategy implementation. After rapidly initiating movement favoring one strategy, people carefully evaluate the applicability of that strategy in the current context. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
368	distributed	2015	Stanton, NA; Salmon, PM; Walker, GH	Let the Reader Decide: A Paradigm Shift for Situation Awareness in Sociotechnical Systems	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE ENGINEERING AND DECISION MAKING	In science and engineering, there is a natural rise and fall of paradigms as progress is made. In this way a new paradigm becomes more established until it gives way to new developments. We think it is legitimate to raise concerns over the status quo and propose new paradigms. This is how science moves forward, but we do recognize that paradigm owners tend to resist change. We contend that distributed situation awareness presents a new paradigm for analyzing and explaining situation awareness in systems, and there is a groundswell of studies that are tipping the balance of evidence in that direction.
369	distributed	2012	Collins, SA; Mamykina, L; Jordan, D; Stein, DM; Shine, A; Reyfman, P; Kaufman, D	In search of common ground in handoff documentation in an Intensive Care Unit	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Objective: Handoff is an intra-disciplinary process, yet the flow of critical handoff information spans multiple disciplines. Understanding this information flow is important for the development of computer-based tools that supports the communication and coordination of patient care in a multi-disciplinary and highly specialized critical care setting. We aimed to understand the structure, functionality, and content of nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts. Design: We analyzed 22 nurses' and physicians' handoff artifacts from a Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit (CTICU) at a large urban medical center. We combined artifact analysis with semantic coding based on our published Interdisciplinary Handoff Information Coding (IHIC) framework for a novel two-step data analysis approach. Results: We found a high degree of structure and overlap in the content of nursing and physician artifacts. Our findings demonstrated a non-technical, yet sophisticated, system with a high degree of structure for the organization and communication of patient data that functions to coordinate the work of multiple disciplines in a highly specialized unit of patient care. Limitations: This study took place in one CTICU. Further work is needed to determine the generalizability of the results. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the development of semi-structured patient-centered interdisciplinary handoff tools with discipline specific views customized for specialty settings may effectively support handoff communication and patient safety. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
370	distributed	1998	Kuo, FY	Managerial intuition and the development of executive support systems	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Managerial intuition is a well-recognized cognitive ability but still poorly understood for the purpose of developing effective Executive Support Systems (ESS). This paper reviews research on cognition involved in intuition. The review shows that, in everyday decision making, executives are not passive choice makers but are active sensemakers who rely on perception, action, and imaginistic reasoning to arrive at solutions to problems. The combination of these cognitive resources appears to be seamless. Furthermore, the knowledge needed for problem solving is distributed between the manager's mind and the surrounding world. As a result, managers' intuition can be effective in handling dynamic, ill-structured problem situations. To develop an ESS that fits this perception-action ecology of the manager's life in a hectic world, we must go beyond the emphasis of the tasks' functionalities. The author proposes an ecological model of managerial intuition and recommends methodologies that focus the analysis on the interplay between the manager and their environment. He also suggests guidelines to improve the ESS development such that the powerful intuition of managers and the analytic capability of the computer may be combined. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
371	distributed	2004	Cowley, SJ	Contextualizing bodies: human infants and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Linking a distributed view of cognition to an integrational perspective on language, learning to talk is presented as an ontogenctic achievement. Examining this as an epigenetic process permits an innovative sketch of how infants come to be heard as producing grammatical utterances. Appealing to 'shallow' or content-free cognition, I show how adjustments by contextualizing bodies allow adult overinterpretations to shape infant doings. Far from needing,representations', the baby uses joint activity, affect, and self-directed anticipative learning. Humans, then, use affective co-ordination to develop neurophysiological biases for speaking/hearing vocalizations around syllabic structures. This promotes a kind of agency that allows a 2 year old human, like an encultured bonobo, to act in ways that appear to be self-implicating, self-directing, self-regulating and self-serving. Both species can use (what we hear as) abstracta in novel and coherent behaviour. Unlike its wild counterpart, however, a human needs no external computational hardware. Rather, her achievement derives from strategic use of contextualizing bodies to gradually discover the rewards that accrue from taking part in utterance-activity. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
372	distributed	2013	Plant, KL; Stanton, NA	The explanatory power of Schema Theory: theoretical foundations and future applications in Ergonomics	ERGONOMICS	Schema Theory is intuitively appealing although it has not always received positive press; critics of the approach argue that the concept is too ambiguous and vague and there are inherent difficulties associated with measuring schemata. As such, the term schema can be met with scepticism and wariness. The purpose of this paper is to address the criticisms that have been levelled at Schema Theory by demonstrating how Schema Theory has been utilised in Ergonomics research, particularly in the key areas of situation awareness, naturalistic decision making and error. The future of Schema Theory is also discussed in light of its potential roles as a unifying theory in Ergonomics and in contributing to our understanding of distributed cognition. We conclude that Schema Theory has made a positive contribution to Ergonomics and with continued refinement of methods to infer and represent schemata it is likely that this trend will continue. Practitioner Summary: This paper reviews the contribution that Schema Theory has made to Ergonomics research. The criticisms of the theory are addressed using examples from the areas of situation awareness, decision making and error.
373	distributed	2009	Chandrasekharan, S	Building to Discover: A Common Coding Model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I present a case study of scientific discovery, where building two functional and behavioral approximations of neurons, one physical and the other computational, led to conceptual and implementation breakthroughs in a neural engineering laboratory. Such building of external systems that mimic target phenomena, and the use of these external systems to generate novel concepts and control structures, is a standard strategy in the new engineering sciences. I develop a model of the cognitive mechanism that connects such built external systems with internal models, and I examine how new discoveries, and consensus on discoveries, could arise from this external-internal coupling and the building process. The model is based on the emerging framework of common coding, which proposes a shared representation in the brain between the execution, perception, and imagination of movement.
374	distributed	2006	Blandford, A; Furniss, D	DiCoT: A methodology for applying Distributed Cognition to the design of teamworking systems	INTERACTIVE SYSTEMS: DESIGN, SPECIFICATION, AND VERIFICATION	Distributed Cognition is growing in popularity as a way of reasoning about group working and the design of artefacts within work systems. DiCoT (Distributed Cognition for Teamwork) is a methodology and representational system we are developing to support distributed cognition analysis of small team working. It draws on ideas from Contextual Design, but re-orients them towards the principles that are central to Distributed Cognition. When used to reason about possible changes to the design of a system, it also draws on Claims Analysis to reason about the likely effects of changes from a Distributed Cognition perspective. The approach has been developed and tested within a large, busy ambulance control centre. It supports reasoning about both existing system design and possible future designs.
375	distributed	2004	Cronin, B	Bowling alone together: Academic writing as distributed cognition	JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY	The twentieth century saw the progressive collectivization of science-dramatic growth in teamwork in general and large-scale collaboration in particular. Cognitive partnering in the conduct of research and scholarship has become commonplace, and this trend is reflected in rates of co-authorship and sub-authorship collaboration. The effects of these developments on academic writing are discussed and theorized in terms of distributed cognition.
376	distributed	2010	Rupert, RD	Extended cognition and the priority of cognitive systems	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	This essay begins by addressing the role of the so-called Parity Principle in arguments for extended cognition. It is concluded that the Parity Principle does not, by itself, demarcate cognition and that another mark of the cognitive must be sought. The second section of the paper advances two arguments against the extended view of cognition, one of which - the conservatism-or-simplicity argument - appeals to principles of theory selection, and the other of which - the argument from demarcation - draws on a systems-based theory of cognition. The final section contests the claim, made by Andy Clark, that empirical work done by Wayne Gray and colleagues supports the extended view. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
377	distributed	2004	Ziemke, T; Bergfeldt, N; Buason, G; Susi, T; Svensson, H	Evolving cognitive scaffolding and environment adaptation: a new research direction for evolutionary robotics	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Many researchers in embodied cognitive science and artificial intelligence, and evolutionary robotics in particular, emphasize the interaction of brain, body and environment as crucial to the emergence of intelligent, adaptive behaviour. Accordingly, the interaction between agent and environment, as well as the co-adaptation of artificial brains and bodies, has been the focus of much research in evolutionary robotics. Hence, there are plenty of studies of robotic agents/species adapting to a given environment. Many animals, on the other hand, in particular humans, to some extent can choose to adapt the environment to their own needs instead of adapting (only) themselves. That alternative has been studied relatively little in robot experiments. This paper, therefore, presents some simple initial simulation experiments, in a delayed response task setting, that illustrate how the evolution of environment adaptation can serve to provide cognitive scaffolding that reduces the requirements for individual agents. Furthermore, theoretical implications, open questions and future research directions for evolutionary robotics are discussed.
378	distributed	1998	Moore, JL; Rocklin, TR	The distribution of distributed cognition: Multiple interpretations and uses	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	We argue that greater precision is needed in the use of the term distributed cognition if this perspective is to significantly impact educational research. We describe a continuum of interpretations of distributed cognition ranging from a conceptualization of cognition as an individual phenomenon that is influenced by factors external to the individual, to a conceptualization of cognition as a social phenomenon that cannot be reduced to individual psychological constructs. We discuss the issues raised by the papers in the current volume, and locate the perspectives taken in these papers along the distributed cognition continuum. The relationship between distributed cognition and situated cognition is then examined, as these terms are often used interchangeably. Finally, we discuss key issues for further research in distributed cognition.
379	distributed	2004	Wheeler, M	Is language the ultimate artefact?	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Andy Clark has argued that language is "in many ways the ultimate artefact" (Clark, 1997, p. 218). Fuelling this conclusion is a view according to which the human brain is essentially no more than a pattern-completing device, while language is an external resource which is adaptively fitted to the human brain in such a way that it enables that brain to exceed its unaided (pattern-completing) cognitive capacities, in much the same way as a pair of scissors enables us to "exploit our basic manipulative capacities to fulfil new ends" (Clark, 1997, pp. 193-194). How should we respond to this bold reconceptualization of our linguistic abilities? First we need to understand it properly. So I begin by identifying and unpacking (and making a small "Heideggerian" amendment to) Clark's main language-specific claims. That done I take a step back. Clark's approach to language is generated from a theoretical perspective which sees cognition as distributed over brain, body, and world. So I continue my investigation of Clark's incursion into linguistic territory by uncovering and illustrating those key ideas from the overall distributed cognition research programme which are particularly relevant in the present context. I then use this analysis as a spring-board from which to examine a crucial issue that arises for Clark's account of language, namely linguistic inner rehearsal. I argue that while there is much to recommend in Clark's treatment of this issue, some significant difficulties remain to be overcome. Via this critique of Clark's position, alongside some proposals for how the revealed problems might be addressed, I hope to edge us that bit closer to a full understanding of our linguistic abilities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
380	distributed	2011	Huebner, B	Genuinely collective emotions	EUROPEAN JOURNAL FOR PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	It is received wisdom in philosophy and the cognitive sciences that individuals can be in emotional states but groups cannot. But why should we accept this view? In this paper, I argue that there is substantial philosophical and empirical support for the existence of collective emotions. Thus, while there is good reason to be skeptical about many ascriptions of collective emotion, I argue that some groups exhibit the computational complexity and informational integration required for being in genuinely emotional states.
381	distributed	2009	Steffensen, SV	Language, languaging, and the Extended Mind Hypothesis	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	After a brief summary of Andy Clark's book, Supersizing the Mind (2008) I address Clark's approach to language which I argue to be inadequate. Clark is criticized for reifying language, thus neglecting that it is an interpersonal activity, not a stable system of symbols. With a starting point in language as a social phenomenon, I suggest an ecological approach to the extended mind hypothesis, arguing against Clark's assumption that the extended mind is necessarily brain-centered.
382	distributed	2004	Spurrett, D; Cowley, SJ	How to do things without words: infants, utterance-activity and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Clark and Chalmers [Analysis 58 (1998) 7] defend the hypothesis of an 'extended mind', maintaining that beliefs and other paradigmatic mental states can be implemented outside the central nervous system or body. Aspects of the problem of 'language acquisition' are considered in the light of the extended mind hypothesis. Rather than 'language' as typically understood, the object of study is something called 'utterance-activity', a term of art intended to refer to the full range of kinetic and prosodic features of the on-line behaviour of interacting humans. It is argued that utterance-activity is plausibly regarded as jointly controlled by the embodied activity of interacting people, and that it contributes to the control of their behaviour. By means of specific examples it is suggested that this complex joint control facilitates easier learning of at least some features of language. This in turn suggests a striking form of the extended mind, in which infants' cognitive powers are augmented by those of the people with whom they interact. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
383	distributed	2003	Bang, M; Timpka, T	Cognitive tools in medical teamwork: The spatial arrangement of patient records	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	Objectives. As a preliminary for the design of Computer-Based Patient Records, the aim of this paper is to build on understanding of the roles physical artifacts like paper-based patient records play in supporting cognition and collaboration in the health-care settings. Method: A small ethnographically-informed study was conducted in the emergency room at a 250-bed hospital in Sweden from the perspective of Distributed Cognition. Results: To track work-in-progress, clinicians placed patient records on a desk to form a shared public display that represented the current problem state for the health-care team. The results of the study suggest that the patient records and other physical artifacts are used by clinicians in different ways to form cognitive tools that offload memory tasks and support joint attention and collaboration. Conclusion: To design Computer-Based Patient Records that more appropriately support cognition and teamwork, it is important to investigate how clinicians make use of the paper-based patient records. Practitioners take advantage of existing tools frequently to deal with cognitively demanding tasks and collaboration issues.
384	distributed	2014	Wang, XY; Love, PED; Kim, MJ; Wang, W	Mutual awareness in collaborative design: An Augmented Reality integrated telepresence system	COMPUTERS IN INDUSTRY	Remote collaboration has become increasingly important and common in designers' working routine. It is critical for geographically distributed designers to accurately perceive and comprehend other remote team members' intentions and activities with a high level of awareness and presence as if they were working in the same room. More specifically, distributed cognition places emphasis on the social aspects of cognition and asserts that knowledge is distributed by placing memories, facts, or knowledge on objects, individuals, and tools in the environment they work. This paper proposes a new computer-mediated remote collaborative design system, TeleAR, to enhance the distributed cognition among remote designers by integrating Augmented Reality and telepresence technologies. This system can afford a high level externalization of shared resources, which includes gestures, design tools, design elements, and design materials. This paper further investigates how this system may affect designers' communication and collaboration with focus on distributed cognition and mutual awareness. It also explores the critical communication-related issue addressed in the proposed system, including common ground and social capitals, perspective invariance, trust and spatial faithfulness. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
385	distributed	2013	Kannampallil, TG; Franklin, A; Mishra, R; Almoosa, KF; Cohen, T; Patel, VL	Understanding the nature of information seeking behavior in critical care: Implications for the design of health information technology	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	Objective: Information in critical care environments is distributed across multiple sources, such as paper charts, electronic records, and support personnel. For decision-making tasks, physicians have to seek, gather, filter and organize information from various sources in a timely manner. The objective of this research is to characterize the nature of physicians' information seeking process, and the content and structure of clinical information retrieved during this process. Method: Eight medical intensive care unit physicians provided a verbal think-aloud as they performed a clinical diagnosis task. Verbal descriptions of physicians' activities, sources of information they used, time spent on each information source, and interactions with other clinicians were captured for analysis. The data were analyzed using qualitative and quantitative approaches. Results: We found that the information seeking process was exploratory and iterative and driven by the contextual organization of information. While there was no significant differences between the overall time spent paper or electronic records, there was marginally greater relative information gain (i.e., more unique information retrieved per unit time) from electronic records (t(6) = 1.89, p = 0.1). Additionally, information retrieved from electronic records was at a higher level (i.e., observations and findings) in the knowledge structure than paper records, reflecting differences in the nature of knowledge utilization across resources. Conclusion: A process of local optimization drove the information seeking process: physicians utilized information that maximized their information gain even though it required significantly more cognitive effort. Implications for the design of health information technology solutions that seamlessly integrate information seeking activities within the workflow, such as enriching the clinical information space and supporting efficient clinical reasoning and decision-making, are discussed. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
386	distributed	2012	Nilsson, M; van Laere, J; Susi, T; Ziemke, T	Information fusion in practice: A distributed cognition perspective on the active role of users	INFORMATION FUSION	Traditionally, the focus of most information fusion research has been on computational aspects, as illustrated by, for example, different versions of the JDL data fusion model. Consequently, the human user has mainly been conceived as a relatively passive recipient of fused information. However, the importance of understanding the active role of human information processing in information fusion is gaining increasing recognition, as also reflected in discussions of a "level 5" in the JDL model. This paper presents a case study of the interaction between human and machine information processing in a maritime surveillance control room. A detailed analysis of cognitive processes and information flows involved in identifying and tracking moving vessels illustrates how machines and human operators collaboratively perform fusion in a highly distributed fashion. The theoretical framework of distributed cognition provides an alternative or complementary way of analysing information fusion systems/processes that more clearly reveals the actual complexities of the interaction between human and machine information processing in practice. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
387	distributed	2010	Geiger, RS; Ribes, D	The Work of Sustaining Order in Wikipedia: The Banning of a Vandal	2010 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	In this paper, we examine the social roles of software tools in the English-language Wikipedia, specifically focusing on autonomous editing programs and assisted editing tools. This qualitative research builds on recent research in which we quantitatively demonstrate the growing prevalence of such software in recent years. Using trace ethnography, we show how these often-unofficial technologies have fundamentally transformed the nature of editing and administration in Wikipedia. Specifically, we analyze 'vandal fighting' as an epistemic process of distributed cognition, highlighting the role of non-human actors in enabling a decentralized activity of collective intelligence. In all, this case shows that software programs are used for more than enforcing policies and standards. These tools enable coordinated yet decentralized action, independent of the specific norms currently in force.
388	distributed	2009	Broth, M	Seeing through screens, hearing through speakers: Managing distant studio space in television control room interaction	JOURNAL OF PRAGMATICS	This paper explores how an only partially visible and audible television studio space can be accountably understood from the perspective of a television control room. A proper grasp of the studio space is necessary for understanding, for example, who is talking to whom in the studio, and the position of camera operators relative to both one another and the people they are filming. Such an understanding is crucial for the on-line collaborative editing of the studio interaction, in a way that is intelligible for the audience of viewers. Based on video-recordings of the control room and the studio interaction during the live production of the French interview program Rideau Rouge, this study describes some of the multi-modal resources and practices that the personnel in the control room mobilize for resolving, in interaction, practical problems pertaining to the studio space, e.g. how they manage to show relevant participants, show participants from complementary angles, and direct camera operators to produce specific shots. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
389	distributed	2007	Michalowski, MP; Sabanovic, S; DiSalvo, C; Busquets, D; Hiatt, LM; Melchior, NA; Simmons, R	Socially distributed perception: GRACE plays social tag at AAAI 2005	AUTONOMOUS ROBOTS	This paper presents a robot search task (social tag) that uses social interaction, in the form of asking for help, as an integral component of task completion. Socially distributed perception is defined as a robot's ability to augment its limited sensory capacities through social interaction. We describe the task of social tag and its implementation on the robot GRACE for the AAAI 2005 Mobile Robot Competition & Exhibition. We then discuss our observations and analyses of GRACE's performance as a situated interaction with conference participants. Our results suggest we were successful in promoting a form of social interaction that allowed people to help the robot achieve its goal. Furthermore, we found that different social uses of the physical space had an effect on the nature of the interaction. Finally, we discuss the implications of this design approach for effective and compelling human-robot interaction, considering its relationship to concepts such as dependency, mixed initiative, and socially distributed cognition.
390	distributed	2007	Cowley, SJ	How human infants deal with symbol grounding	INTERACTION STUDIES	Taking a distributed view of language, this paper naturalizes symbol grounding. Learning to talk is traced to - not categorizing speech sounds - but events that shape the rise of human-style autonomy. On the extended symbol hypothesis, this happens as babies integrate micro-activity with slow and deliberate adult action. As they discover social norms, intrinsic motive formation enables them to reshape co-action. Because infants link affect to contingencies, dyads develop norm-referenced routines. Over time, infant doings become analysis amenable. The caregiver of a nine-month-old may, for example, prompt the baby to fetch objects. Once she concludes that the baby uses 'words' to understand what she says, the infant can use this belief in orienting to more abstract contingencies. New cognitive powers will develop as the baby learns to act in ways that are consistent with a caregiver's false belief that her baby uses 'words.'
391	distributed	2007	Wilson, S; Galliers, J; Fone, J	Cognitive artifacts in support of medical shift handover: An in use, in situ evaluation	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	Technologies introduced to support complex and critical work practices merit rigorous and effective evaluation. However, evaluation strategies often fall short of evaluating real use by practitioners in the workplace and thereby miss an opportunity to gauge the true impact of the technology on the work. This article reports an in use, in situ evaluation of 2 cognitive artifacts that support the everyday work of handover in a healthcare setting. The evaluation drew inspiration from the theoretical viewpoint offered by distributed cognition, focusing on the information content, representational media, and context of use of the artifacts. The article discusses how this approach led to insights about the artifacts and their support of the work that could not have been obtained with more traditional evaluation techniques. Specifically, the argument is made that the ubiquitous approach of user testing with its reliance on think-alouds and observations of interaction is inadequate in this context and set an initial agenda for issues that should be addressed by in use, in situ evaluations.
392	distributed	2000	Decortis, F; Noirfalise, S; Saudelli, B	Activity theory, cognitive ergonomics and distributed cognition: three views of a transport company	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Activity theory, cognitive ergonomics and distributed cognition are three theoretical frameworks used to understand cooperative work settings. In the past, each has used case studies to describe and defend its point of view. However, comparisons are made difficult by the fact that these studies are usually based on different work settings. This paper describes the application of each framework to exactly the same setting. We believe our approach shows the features that are emphasized and those that are ignored in each framework, enabling us to differentiate their relevant questions. We discuss the effects of a theoretical filter on understanding the work setting, the differences in the concept of activity, the tools and interactions between humans and tools, the concept of representation, and we look at how a plurality of viewpoints may broaden any interpretation. (C) 2000Academic Press.
393	distributed	1995	PATEL, VL; KAUFMAN, DR; AROCHA, JF	STEERING THROUGH THE MURKY WATERS OF A SCIENTIFIC CONFLICT - SITUATED AND SYMBOLIC MODELS OF CLINICAL COGNITION	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE	The situated action perspective, which embraces a diversity of views, challenges several of the fundamental assumptions of the symbolic information-processing framework underlying cognitive science and artificial intelligence. In this paper, we consider the following issues: symbolic representations, plans and actions, distributed cognition, and the transfer of learning. We evaluate each of these issues in terms of research and theories in clinical cognition and examine the implications for education and training, and for the integration of intelligent systems in medical practice. We argue for a reconceptualization of the symbolic framework in terms of the way the role of internal representations and cognitive activities are perceived. However, symbolic representations are integral to medical cognition and should continue to be central in any theoretical framework. A re-examination of cognitive science in medicine in terms of the relationship among physicians, technology, and the workplace could prove to be constructive in bridging the gap between theory and practice.
394	distributed	2013	Alvarez, C; Salavati, S; Nussbaum, M; Milrad, M	Collboard: Fostering new media literacies in the classroom through collaborative problem solving supported by digital pens and interactive whiteboards	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	Education systems worldwide must strive to support the teaching of a set of New Media Literacies (NMLs). These literacies respond to the need for educating human capital within participatory cultures in a highly technologized world. In this paper, we present Collboard, a constructivist problem solving activity for fostering the development of specific NMLs in classrooms: collective intelligence, distributed cognition and transmedia navigation. Collboard encompasses successive individual and collaborative work phases that prompt active student participation and engagement. It integrates digitally augmented appliances, namely, digital pens as a means to support individual work, and interactive whiteboards as a collaborative knowledge construction space. We report on the conceptual design of Collboard, its different technological and software components, as well as our findings from experiences we conducted in a Swedish school with 12 students from a 7th grade maths class. Findings from the experience provide an indication that Collboard can be well integrated in classroom teaching, and that it can foster the development of collective intelligence, distributed cognition and transmedia navigation in different knowledge domains. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
395	distributed	2012	Sharples, S; Martin, J; Lang, A; Craven, M; O'Neill, S; Barnett, J	Medical device design in context: A model of user-device interaction and consequences	DISPLAYS	The practice of evaluating interaction with devices is embedded in disciplines such as human-computer interaction and cognitive ergonomics, including concepts such as affordances, error analysis, skill, rule and knowledge based behaviour and decision making biases. This paper considers the way in which the approach that has been routinely applied to displays and control design within the control and transport domains can be transferred to the context of medical devices. The importance of considering the context in which medical devices are used and implemented is presented, and the need for a systems approach to medical device design is emphasised. Five case studies from medical device control and display design are presented as an aide to developing an understanding of the relationship between device design and resultant behaviours. On the basis of these case studies, four types of mediating factors (catalysts, enablers, facilitators and enhancers) are proposed and a model to describe the link between device design, user, context and consequences is presented. (C) 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V.
396	distributed	2009	Ward, T; Nee, C	Surfaces and depths: evaluating the theoretical assumptions of cognitive skills programmes	PSYCHOLOGY CRIME & LAW	Cognitive skills programmes for offenders such as Reasoning and Rehabilitation (R R) have been around now for over 20 years and were developed in part to address their poor reasoning and decision-making skills. In this paper we critically examine the theoretical underpinnings of the R R programme in light of current theoretical developments and research from cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, biology, and psychology. After considering recent theoretical and empirical research on rationality, emotions, distributed cognition, and embodiment we conclude with some thoughts about how to fine-tune cognitive skills programmes such as R R in light of this research.
397	distributed	2008	Fu, WT	The Microstructures of Social Tagging: A Rational Model	CSCW: 2008 ACM CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK, CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS	This article presents a rational model developed under the distributed cognition framework that explains how social tags influence knowledge acquisition and adaptation in exploratory ill-defined information tasks. The model provides integrated predictions on the interactions among link selections, use and creation of tags, and the formation of mental categories. The model shows that the quality of tags not only influences search efficiency, but also the quality of mental categories formed during exploratory search. In addition, the model shows that aggregate regularities can be explained by microstructures of behavior that emerged from the adaptive assimilation of concepts and categories of multiple users through the social tagging system. The model has important implications on how collaborative systems could influence higher-level cognitive activities.
398	distributed	2003	Cowley, S; Spurrett, D	Putting apes (body and language) together again	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	It is argued that the account of Savage-Rumbaugh's ape language research in Savage-Rumbaugh, Shanker and Taylor (1998, Apes, Language and the Human Mind. Oxford University Press, Oxford) is profitably read in the terms of the theoretical developed in Clark (1997, Being There, Putting Brain, Body and World Together Again, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA). The former work details some striking results concerning chimpanzee and bonobo subjects, trained to make use of keyboards containing 'lexigram' symbols. The authors, though, make heavy going of a critique of what they take to be standard approaches to understanding language and cognition in animals, and fail to offer a worthwhile theoretical position from which to make sense of their own data. It is suggested that the achievements of Savage-Rumbaugh's non-human subjects suggest that language ability need not be explained by reference to specialised brain capacities. The contribution made by Clark's work is to show the range of ways in which cognition exploits bodily and environmental resources. This model of 'distributed' cognition helps make sense of the lexigram activity of Savage-Rumbaugh's subjects, and points to a re-evaluation of the language behaviour of humans.
399	distributed	2001	Xiao, Y; Lasome, C; Moss, J; Mackenzie, CF; Faraj, S	Cognitive properties of a whiteboard: A case study in a trauma centre	ECSCW 2001: PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTH EUROPEAN CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SUPPORTED COOPERATIVE WORK	Distributed cognition as an approach to collaborative work holds that a work unit is cognitive system in which cognitive activities are carried out jointly by workers with the use of tools. This approach has several direct implications to the study of collaborative work. In this paper, we analysed staff interactions with a large display board in a Level I trauma centre operating room unit. Coordination needs are exacerbated by the unpredictability of incoming emergency surgery patients admitted to the trauma centre as well as other contingencies (such as changes in scheduled surgery cases or staffing). The public display board has evolved into a key component for supporting collaborative work. The physical and perceptual properties of the board are exploited by the clinicians to support rapid paced, highly dynamic work. The canvas-like appearances of the display board, combined with magnetic objects attached to the board, afford its users to taylor the board as an effective coordinative tool and to invent new ways of representing information. Based on the concept of display-based cognition, our analysis illustrates the role of public displays in facilitating negotiation of scheduling, joint planning, and augmenting inter-personal communication.
400	distributed	2012	Steffensen, SV	Care and conversing in dialogical systems	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article promotes a point of view on human interaction in terms of dialogical systems. The approach draws on recent, so-called third wave, developments in cognitive science. After an introduction to three waves in cognitive science, and their counterparts in linguistics, the article is placed in a tradition that is ecological, embodied and distributed. Its specific take on human interaction pursues these perspectives by claiming that language can neither be reduced to social rules in the micro-sociological domain, nor to biological properties of the individual being. As an alternative to these two positions, a theory of dialogical systems is developed, on the basis of current thinking within the enactive program (e.g. De Jaegher and Di Paolo, 2007), the distributed language movement (e.g. Cowley, 2011b), and values-realizing theory (e.g. Hodges, 2009). Dialogical systems are systems of co-present human beings engaged in interactivity that bring forth situated behavioural coordination (or a communicative, structural coupling). Dialogical systems, however, have emergent properties irreducible to individual actions or microsocial norms. Among the emergent properties one find a tendency to establish and uphold equilibriums that balance between various, at times opposing, values and tensions. This approach is exemplified through an analysis of a real-life conversation between a mother and a health visitor. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
401	dynamical	2001	Thelen, E; Schoner, G; Scheier, C; Smith, LB	The dynamics of embodiment: A field theory of infant perseverative reaching	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The overall goal of this target article is to demonstrate a mechanism for an embodied cognition. The particular vehicle is a much-studied, but still widely debated phenomenon seen in 7-12 month-old-infants. In Piaget's classic "A-not-B error," infants who have successfully uncovered a toy at location "A" continue to reach to that location even after they watch the toy hidden in a nearby location "B." Here, we question the traditional explanations of the error as an indicator of infants' concepts of objects or other static mental structures. Instead, we demonstrate that the A-not-B error and its previously puzzling contextual variations can be understood by the coupled dynamics of the ordinary processes of goal-directed actions: looking, planning, reaching, and remembering. We offer a formal dynamic theory and model based on cognitive embodiment that both simulates the known A-not-B effects and offers novel predictions that match new experimental results. The demonstration supports an embodied view by casting the mental events involved in perception, planning, deciding, and remembering in the same analogic dynamic language as that used to describe bodily movement, so that they may be continuously meshed. We maintain that this mesh is a pre-eminently cognitive act of "knowing" not only in infancy but also in everyday activities throughout the life span.
402	dynamical	2001	Thompson, E; Varela, FJ	Radical embodiment: neural dynamics and consciousness	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	We propose a new approach to the neuroscience of consciousness, growing out of the 'enactive' viewpoint in cognitive science. This approach aims to map the neural substrates of consciousness at the level of large-scale, emergent and transient dynamical patterns of brain activity (rather than at the level of particular circuits or classes of neurons), and it suggests that the processes crucial for consciousness cut across the brain-body-world divisions, rather than being brain-bound neural events. Whereas standard approaches to the neural correlates of consciousness have assumed a one-way causal-explanatory relationship between internal neural representational systems and the contents of consciousness, our approach allows for theories and hypotheses about the two-way or reciprocal relationship between embodied conscious states and local neuronal activity.
403	dynamical	2007	Reijneveld, JC; Ponten, SC; Berendse, HW; Stam, CJ	The application of graph theoretical analysis to complex networks in the brain	CLINICAL NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Considering the brain as a complex network of interacting dynamical systems offers new insights into higher level brain processes such as memory, planning, and abstract reasoning as well as various types of brain pathophysiology. This viewpoint provides the opportunity to apply new insights in network sciences, such as the discovery of small world and scale free networks, to data on anatomical and functional connectivity in the brain. In this review we start with some background knowledge on the history and recent advances in network theories in general. We emphasize the correlation between the structural properties of networks and the dynamics of these networks. We subsequently demonstrate through evidence from computational studies, in vivo experiments, and functional MRI, EEG and MEG studies in humans, that both the functional and anatomical connectivity of the healthy brain have many features of a small world network, but only to a limited extent of a scale free network. The small world structure of neural networks is hypothesized to reflect an optimal configuration associated with rapid synchronization and information transfer, minimal wiring costs, resilience to certain types of damage, as well as a balance between local processing and global integration. Eventually, we review the current knowledge on the effects of focal and diffuse brain disease on neural network characteristics, and demonstrate increasing evidence that both cognitive and psychiatric disturbances, as well as risk of epileptic seizures, are correlated with (changes in) functional network architectural features. 2007 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
404	dynamical	2000	Beer, RD	Dynamical approaches to cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Dynamical ideas are beginning to have a major impact on cognitive science, from foundational debates to daily practice. In this article, I review three contrasting examples of work in this area that address the lexical and grammatical structure of language, Piaget's classic "A-not-B' error, and active categorical perception in an embodied, situated agent. From these three examples, I then attempt to articulate the major differences between dynamical approaches and more traditional symbolic and connectionist approaches. Although the three models reviewed here vary considerable in their details, they share a focus on the unfolding trajectory of a system's state and the internal and external forces that shape this trajectory, rather than the representational content of its constituent states or the underlying physical mechanism that instantiate the dynamics. In some work, this dynamical viewpoint is augmented with a situated and embodied perspective on cognition, forming a promising unified theoretical framework for cognitive science broadly construed.
405	dynamical	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
406	dynamical	2006	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Hristovski, R	The ecological dynamics of decision making in sport	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The aim of this position paper is to consider the decision-making process as an integral part of goal-directed behaviour influenced by functional constraints at the scale of the environment-athlete relationship. To achieve this aim we discuss relevant theoretical ideas from ecological psychology, focusing particularly on ecological dynamics, as a contrast to more traditional perspectives on decision-making behaviour. To support the argumentation we briefly describe some recent empirical data from studies of sports that emphasise this alternative. perspective on decision making. We conclude that traditional approaches analyse decisions as if they were not grounded, i.e., expressed behaviourally through actions in performance contexts. It is argued that an ecological approach should analyse affordances or action possibilities, when studying cognition in sport, demanding an integration of theories and ideas from the natural sciences in order to understand concepts like information and intentionality. Conclusion: Decision-making behaviour is best considered at the level of the performer-environment relationship and viewed as emerging from the interactions of individuals with environmental constraints over time towards specific functional goals. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
407	dynamical	2005	Baars, BJ	Global workspace theory of consciousness: toward a cognitive neuroscience of human experience	BOUNDARIES OF CONSCIOUSNESS: NEUROBIOLOGY AND NEUROPATHOLOGY	Global workspace (GW) theory emerged from the cognitive architecture tradition in cognitive science. Newell and co-workers were the first to show the utility of a GW or "blackboard" architecture in a distributed set of knowledge sources, which could cooperatively solve problems that no single constituent could solve alone. The empirical connection with conscious cognition was made by Baars (1988, 2002). GW theory generates explicit predictions for conscious aspects of perception, emotion, motivation, learning, working memory, voluntary control, and self systems in the brain. It has similarities to biological theories such as Neural Darwinism and dynamical theories of brain functioning. Functional brain imaging now shows that conscious cognition is distinctively associated with wide spread of cortical activity, notably toward frontoparietal and medial temporal regions. Unconscious comparison conditions tend to activate only local regions, such as visual projection areas. Frontoparietal hypometabolism is also implicated in unconscious states, including deep sleep, coma, vegetative states, epileptic loss of consciousness, and general anesthesia. These findings are consistent with the GW hypothesis, which is now favored by a number of scientists and philosophers.
408	dynamical	2001	Newell, KM; Liu, YT; Mayer-Kress, G	Time scales in motor learning and development	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theoretical framework based on the concepts and tools of nonlinear dynamical systems is advanced to account for both the persistent and transitory changes traditionally shown for the learning and development of motor skills. The multiple lime scales of change in task outcome over time are interpreted as originating from the system's trajectory on an evolving attractor landscape. Different bifurcations between attractor organizations and transient phenomena can lead to exponential, power law, or S-shaped learning curves. This unified dynamical account of the Functions and time scales in motor learning and development offers several new hypotheses for future research on the nature of change in learning theory.
409	dynamical	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
410	dynamical	2010	Barsalou, LW	Grounded Cognition: Past, Present, and Future	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Thirty years ago, grounded cognition had roots in philosophy, perception, cognitive linguistics, psycholinguistics, cognitive psychology, and cognitive neuropsychology. During the next 20 years, grounded cognition continued developing in these areas, and it also took new forms in robotics, cognitive ecology, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology. In the past 10 years, research on grounded cognition has grown rapidly, especially in cognitive neuroscience, social neuroscience, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and developmental psychology. Currently, grounded cognition appears to be achieving increased acceptance throughout cognitive science, shifting from relatively minor status to increasing importance. Nevertheless, researchers wonder whether grounded mechanisms lie at the heart of the cognitive system or are peripheral to classic symbolic mechanisms. Although grounded cognition is currently dominated by demonstration experiments in the absence of well-developed theories, the area is likely to become increasingly theory driven over the next 30 years. Another likely development is the increased incorporation of grounding mechanisms into cognitive architectures and into accounts of classic cognitive phenomena. As this incorporation occurs, much functionality of these architectures and phenomena is likely to remain, along with many original mechanisms. Future theories of grounded cognition are likely to be heavily influenced by both cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience, and also by developmental science and robotics. Aspects from the three major perspectives in cognitive science-classic symbolic architectures, statistical/dynamical systems, and grounded cognition-will probably be integrated increasingly in future theories, each capturing indispensable aspects of intelligence.
411	dynamical	2011	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N	A Dynamic Interactive Theory of Person Construal	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A dynamic interactive theory of person construal is proposed. It assumes that the perception of other people is accomplished by a dynamical. system involving continuous interaction between social categories, stereotypes, high-level cognitive states, and the low-level processing of facial, vocal, and bodily cues. This system permits lower-level sensory perception and higher-order social cognition to dynamically coordinate across multiple interactive levels of processing to give rise to stable person construals. A recurrent connectionist model of this system is described, which accounts for major findings on (a) partial parallel activation and dynamic competition in categorization and stereotyping, (b) top-down influences of high-level cognitive stales and stereotype activations on categorization, (c) bottom-up category interactions due to shared perceptual features, and (d) contextual and cross-modal effects on categorization. The system's probabilistic and continuously evolving activation states permit multiple construals to be flexibly active in parallel. These activation states are also able to be tightly yoked to ongoing changes in external perceptual cues and to ongoing changes in high-level cognitive states. The implications of a rapidly adaptive, dynamic, and interactive person construal system are discussed.
412	dynamical	2009	Fuchs, T; De Jaegher, H	Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Current theories of social cognition are mainly based on a representationalist view. Moreover, they focus on a rather sophisticated and limited aspect of understanding others, i.e. on how we predict and explain others' behaviours through representing their mental states. Research into the 'social brain' has also favoured a third-person paradigm of social cognition as a passive observation of others' behaviour, attributing it to an inferential, simulative or projective process in the individual brain. In this paper, we present a concept of social understanding as an ongoing, dynamical process of participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. This process may be described (1) from a dynamical agentive systems point of view as an interaction and coordination of two embodied agents; (2) from a phenomenological approach as a mutual incorporation, i.e. a process in which the lived bodies of both participants extend and form a common intercorporality. Intersubjectivity, it is argued, is not a solitary task of deciphering or simulating the movements of others but means entering a process of embodied interaction and generating common meaning through it. This approach will be further illustrated by an analysis of primary dyadic interaction in early childhood.
413	dynamical	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
414	dynamical	2010	McClelland, JL; Botvinick, MM; Noelle, DC; Plaut, DC; Rogers, TT; Seidenberg, MS; Smith, LB	Letting structure emerge: connectionist and dynamical systems approaches to cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Connectionist and dynamical systems approaches explain human thought, language and behavior in terms of the emergent consequences of a large number of simple noncognitive processes. We view the entities that serve as the basis for structured probabilistic approaches as abstractions that are occasionally useful but often misleading: they have no real basis in the actual processes that give rise to linguistic and cognitive abilities or to the development of these abilities. Although structured probabilistic approaches can be useful in determining what would be optimal under certain assumptions, we propose that connectionist, dynamical systems, and related approaches, which focus on explaining the mechanisms that give rise to cognition, will be essential in achieving a full understanding of cognition and development.
415	dynamical	2009	Shockley, K; Richardson, DC; Dale, R	Conversation and Coordinative Structures	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	People coordinate body postures and gaze patterns during conversation. We review literature showing that (1) action embodies cognition, (2) postural coordination emerges spontaneously when two people converse, (3) gaze patterns influence postural coordination, (4) gaze coordination is a function of common ground knowledge and visual information that conversants believe they share, and (5) gaze coordination is causally related to mutual understanding. We then consider how coordination, generally, can be understood as temporarily coupled neuromuscular components that function as a collective unit known as a coordinative structure in the motor control literature. We speculate that the coordination of gaze and body sway found in conversation may be understood as a cross-person coordinative structure that embodies the goals of the joint action system.
416	dynamical	2006	Marsh, KL; Richardson, MJ; Baron, RM; Schmidt, RC	Contrasting approaches to perceiving and acting with others	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	How and why the presence of a person directly affects the perception and action of another person is a phenomenon that has been approached in a limited and piecemeal fashion within psychology. This kind of diffuse strategy has failed to capture the jointness of perception and action within and between people. In contradistinction, the authors offer a perspective that retains both integrally social features (e.g., involves interaction) and yet adequately exploits the current state of knowledge regarding the ecological properties of perception-action, while at the same time drawing on aspects of dynamic systems theory. In this article the authors review the best attempts to examine how one individual affects another's perceptions and actions in the emergence of a social unit of action. Two important approaches, the individual-level and cognitive dynamics approaches, have yielded insights that derive in significant degree from principles of ecological psychology and/or dynamical systems theory. Prototypic of the individual-level approach is a focus on what can be perceived by coactors with the aim of uncovering how the dispositional qualities (affordances) of another person are informationally specified during social interaction. In contrast, the cognitive dynamics approach simulates dynamical characteristics of cognition and psychological influence with the aim of uncovering how cooperative interaction emerges out of its component parts. The authors argue that these approaches involve, respectively, insufficient mutuality and insufficient embodiment. Consequently, a social synergy perspective is discussed that approaches the problem of socially cooperative interaction at the relational, nonreductive level, using novel methods to examine how social perception and action emerge through self-organizing processes.
417	dynamical	2005	Harvey, I; Di Paolo, E; Wood, R; Quinn, M; Tuci, E	Evolutionary robotics: A new scientific tool for studying cognition	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	We survey developments in artificial neural networks, in behavior-based robotics, and in evolutionary algorithms that set the stage for evolutionary robotics (ER) in the 1990s. We examine the motivations for using ER as a scientific tool for studying minimal models of cognition, with the advantage of being capable of generating integrated sensorimotor systems with minimal (or controllable) prejudices. These systems must act as a whole in close coupling with their environments, which is an essential aspect of real cognition that is often either bypassed or modeled poorly in other disciplines. We demonstrate with three example studies: homeostasis under visual inversion, the origins of learning, and the ontogenetic acquisition of entrainment.
418	dynamical	2000	Large, EW	On synchronizing movements to music	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	How do people synchronize movement patterns with music? Most likely, when people listen to a musical rhythm, they perceive a bear and a metrical structure in the rhythm, and these perceived patterns enable coordination with the music. Here, a model of meter perception is proposed in which a musical stimulus provides input to a pattern-forming dynamical system. Under rhythmic stimulation, the system undergoes bifurcations that correspond to the birth of self-sustained oscillations and the formation of temporally structured patterns of oscillations. The resulting patterns dynamically embody the perception of beat and meter, and they are stable in the sense that they can persist in the in the face of rhythmic conflict. The performance of the model is compared with the results of a recent beat induction study (J. Snyder, C.L. Krumhansl, Tapping to ragtime: Cues to pulse-finding. Music Perception, 2000 (under review)) in which musicians tapped along with musical rhythms. The network closely matched human performance for natural musical signals and showed a similar pattern of breakdowns as the input degraded. The theoretical implications of these findings are considered. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
419	dynamical	2013	Wilson, AD; Golonka, S	Embodied cognition is not what you think it is	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The most exciting hypothesis in cognitive science right now is the theory that cognition is embodied. Like all good ideas in cognitive science, however, embodiment immediately came to mean six different things. The most common definitions involve the straightforward claim that "states of the body modify states of the mind." However, the implications of embodiment are actually much more radical than this. If cognition can span the brain, body, and the environment, then the "states of mind" of disembodied cognitive science won't exist to be modified. Cognition will instead be an extended system assembled from a broad array of resources. Taking embodiment seriously therefore requires both new methods and theory. Here we outline four key steps that research programs should follow in order to fully engage with the implications of embodiment. The first step is to conduct a task analysis, which characterizes from a first person perspective the specific task that a perceiving-acting cognitive agent is faced with. The second step is to identify the task-relevant resources the agent has access to in order to solve the task. These resources can span brain, body, and environment. The third step is to identify how the agent can assemble these resources into a system capable of solving the problem at hand. The last step is to test the agent's performance to confirm that agent is actually using the solution identified in step 3. We explore these steps in more detail with reference to two useful examples (the outfielder problem and the A-not-B error), and introduce how to apply this analysis to the thorny question of language use. Embodied cognition is more than we think it is, and we have the tools we need to realize its full potential.
420	dynamical	2006	Spivey, MJ; Dale, R	Continuous dynamics in real-time cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Real-time cognition is best described not as a sequence of logical operations performed on discrete symbols but as a continuously changing pattern of neuronal activity. The continuity in these dynamics indicates that, in between describable states of mind, mental activity does not lend itself to the linguistic labels relied on by much of psychology. We discuss eye-tracking and mouse-tracking evidence for this temporal continuity and provide geometric visualizations of mental activity, depicting it as a continuous trajectory through a state space (a multidimensional space in which locations correspond to mental states). When the state of the system travels toward a frequently visited region of that space, the destination may constitute recognition of a particular word or a particular object; but on the way there, the majority of the mental trajectory is in intermediate regions of that space, revealing graded mixtures of mental states.
421	dynamical	2011	Freyer, F; Roberts, JA; Becker, R; Robinson, PA; Ritter, P; Breakspear, M	Biophysical Mechanisms of Multistability in Resting-State Cortical Rhythms	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The human alpha (8-12 Hz) rhythm is one of the most prominent, robust, and widely studied attributes of ongoing cortical activity. Contrary to the prevalent notion that it simply "waxes and wanes," spontaneous alpha activity bursts erratically between two distinct modes of activity. We now establish a mechanism for this multistable phenomenon in resting-state cortical recordings by characterizing the complex dynamics of a biophysical model of macroscopic corticothalamic activity. This is achieved by studying the predicted activity of cortical and thalamic neuronal populations in this model as a function of its dynamic stability and the role of nonspecific synaptic noise. We hence find that fluctuating noisy inputs into thalamic neurons elicit spontaneous bursts between low-and high-amplitude alpha oscillations when the system is near a particular type of dynamical instability, namely a subcritical Hopf bifurcation. When the postsynaptic potentials associated with these noisy inputs are modulated by cortical feedback, the SD of power within each of these modes scale in proportion to their mean, showing remarkable concordance with empirical data. Our state-dependent corticothalamic model hence exhibits multistability and scale-invariant fluctuations-key features of resting-state cortical activity and indeed, of human perception, cognition, and behavior-thus providing a unified account of these apparently divergent phenomena.
422	dynamical	2008	Freeman, JB; Ambady, N; Rule, NO; Johnson, KL	Will a Category Cue Attract You? Motor Output Reveals Dynamic Competition Across Person Construal	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	People use social categories to perceive others. extracting category cues to glean membership. Growing evidence for continuous dynamics in real-time cognition suggests. contrary to prevailing social psychological accounts. that person construal may involve dynamic competition between simultaneously active representations. To test this, the authors examined social categorization in real-time by streaming the x, y coordinates of hand movements as participants categorized typical and atypical faces by sex. Though judgments of atypical targets were largely accurate. online motor Output exhibited l Continuous spatial attraction toward the opposite sex category. indicating dynamic competition between multiple social category alternatives. The authors offer a dynamic continuity account of social categorization and provide converging evidence across categorizations of real male and female faces (containing a typical or in atypical sex-specifying cue) and categorizations of computer-generated male and female faces (with Subtly morphed sex-typical or sex-atypical features). In 3 studies, online motor Output revealed continuous dynamics underlying Person construal. ill which multiple simultaneously and partially active category representations gradually cascade into social categorical judgments. Such evidence is challenging for discrete stage-based accounts.
423	dynamical	1999	Pressing, J	The referential dynamics of cognition and action	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Referential behavior theory (RBT), a general dynamical approach to psychological and related systems that operate through a control or referencing process, is introduced. A review of existing evidence shows that this approach can apply to a variety of human and animal systems and tasks, whether the framing language is that of homeostasis, error correction, coupled biological oscillators, motor control, adaptive change, cognitive goal-setting, evaluation and refinement, or neural network learning. Thus, RBT provides a path for reconciliation of dynamical and information-processing accounts of action and cognition. RBT generates a class of mathematical equations, one of which, the discrete control equation (DCE), forms the basis for more detailed investigation. The primary focus here is on the application of the DCE to the temporal structure of regular human movement. Given certain conditions, the equation produces various standard (and new, more general) forms of the circle map class that governs relative phase in motor coordination and, hence, generates well-documented nonlinear ''dynamical" motor phenomena such as behavioral attractors, phase transitions, critical slowing, and so on. Under certain other conditions, the DCE produces the linear stochastic timing models often associated with motor program traditions, accommodating hierarchical effects, open- and closed-loop conditions, and unilimb and multilimb movement A number of new predictions are identified from the approach, and a review of experimental evidence gives support for the claim that the current formulation is an integrated generalization and improvement of several aspects of existing motor program and dynamic approaches.
424	dynamical	2005	Wagenmakers, EJ; Farrell, S; Ratcliff, R	Human cognition and a pile of sand: A discussion on serial correlations and self-organized criticality	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Recently, G. C. Van Orden, J. G. Holden, and M. T. Turvey (2003) proposed to abandon the conventional framework of cognitive psychology in favor of the framework of nonlinear dynamical systems theory. Van Orden et al. presented evidence that "purposive behavior originates in self-organized criticality" (p. 333). Here, the authors show that Van Orden et al.'s analyses do not test their hypotheses. Further, the authors argue that a confirmation of Van Orden et al.'s hypotheses would not have constituted firm evidence in support of their framework. Finally, the absence of a specific model for how self-organized criticality produces the observed behavior makes it very difficult to derive testable predictions. The authors conclude that the proposed paradigm shift is presently unwarranted.
425	dynamical	2009	McClelland, JL	The Place of Modeling in Cognitive Science	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	I consider the role of cognitive modeling in cognitive science. Modeling, and the computers that enable it, are central to the field, but the role of modeling is often misunderstood. Models are not intended to capture fully the processes they attempt to elucidate. Rather, they are explorations of ideas about the nature of cognitive processes. In these explorations, simplification is essential-through simplification, the implications of the central ideas become more transparent. This is not to say that simplification has no downsides; it does, and these are discussed. I then consider several contemporary frameworks for cognitive modeling, stressing the idea that each framework is useful in its own particular ways. Increases in computer power (by a factor of about 4 million) since 1958 have enabled new modeling paradigms to emerge, but these also depend on new ways of thinking. Will new paradigms emerge again with the next 1,000-fold increase?
426	dynamical	1997	Clark, A	The dynamical challenge	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Recent studies such as Thelen and Smith (1994), Kelso, (1995), Van Gelder, (1995), Beer, (1995), and others have presented a forceful case for a dynamical systems approach to understanding cognition and adaptive behavior. These studies call into question some foundational assumptions concerning the nature of cognitive scientific explanation and (in particular) the role of notions such as internal representation and computation. These are exciting and important challenges. But they must be handled with care. It is all too easy, in this debate, to lose sight of the explanatorily important issues and to talk at cross-purposes, courtesy of the (surprisingly) various ways in which different theorists often conceive the key terms. The primary goal of the present paper is thus a modest one: to begin to clarify just what is at issue and to highlight some of the most central and pressing concerns. In so doing, we may hope to develop a constructive framework for future debate. In addition, I try to open up a space of intermediate options-ways in which dynamical and representational/computational understandings may sometimes afford complementary (rather than competing) perspectives on adaptive success.
427	dynamical	2008	Schoner, G	Dynamical Systems Approaches to Cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF COMPUTATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
428	dynamical	2009	Araujo, D; Davids, K	Ecological approaches to cognition and action in sport and exercise: Ask not only what you do, but where you do it	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In recent decades, concepts and ideas from James J. Gibson's theory of direct perception in ecological psychology have been applied to the study of how perception and action regulate sport performance. This article examines the influence of different streams of thought in ecological psychology for studying cognition and action in The diverse behavioural contexts of sport and exercise. In discussing the origins of ecological psychology, it can be concluded that psychologists Such as Lewin, and to some extent Heider, provided the initial impetus for the development of key ideas. We argue that The papers in this special issue clarify, that the different schools of thinking in ecological psychology have much to contribute to theoretical and practical developments in sport and exercise psychology For example, Gibson emphasized and formalized how the individual is coupled with the environment, Brunswik raised the issue of the ontology of probability in human behaviour and the problem of representative design for experimental task constraints; Barker looked carefully into extra-individual behavioural contexts and Bronfenbrenner presented insights pertinent to the relations between behaviour contexts, and macro influences on behaviour In this overview, we highlight essential issues from the main schools of thought of relevance to the contexts of sport and exercise, and we consider some potential theoretical linkages with dynamical systems theory.
429	dynamical	2014	Fusaroli, R; Raczaszek-Leonardi, J; Tylen, K	Dialog as interpersonal synergy	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	What is the proper unit of analysis in the psycholinguistics of dialog? While classical approaches are largely based on models of individual linguistic processing, recent advances stress the social coordinative nature of dialog. In the influential interactive alignment model, dialogue is thus approached as the progressive entrainment of interlocutors' linguistic behaviors toward the alignment of situation models. Still, the driving mechanisms are attributed to individual cognition in the form of automatic structural priming. Challenging these ideas, we outline a dynamical framework for studying dialog based on the notion of interpersonal synergy. Crucial to this synergetic model is the emphasis on dialog as an emergent, self-organizing, interpersonal system capable of functional coordination. A consequence of this model is that linguistic processes cannot be reduced to the workings of individual cognitive systems but must be approached also at the interpersonal level. From the synergy model follows a number of new predictions: beyond simple synchrony, good dialog affords complementary dynamics, constrained by contextual sensitivity and functional specificity. We substantiate our arguments by reference to recent empirical studies supporting the idea of dialog as interpersonal synergy. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
430	dynamical	2013	Cooke, NJ; Gorman, JC; Myers, CW; Duran, JL	Interactive Team Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognition in work teams has been predominantly understood and explained in terms of shared cognition with a focus on the similarity of static knowledge structures across individual team members. Inspired by the current zeitgeist in cognitive science, as well as by empirical data and pragmatic concerns, we offer an alternative theory of team cognition. Interactive Team Cognition (ITC) theory posits that (1) team cognition is an activity, not a property or a product; (2) team cognition should be measured and studied at the team level; and (3) team cognition is inextricably tied to context. There are implications of ITC for theory building, modeling, measurement, and applications that make teams more effective performers.
431	dynamical	2000	Markman, AB; Dietrich, E	Extending the classical view of representation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Representation has always been a central part of models in cognitive science, but this idea has come under attack. Researchers advocating the alternative approaches of perceptual symbol systems, situated action, embodied cognition, and dynamical systems have argued against central assumptions of the classical representational approach to mind. We review the core assumptions of the representational view and these four suggested alternatives. We argue that representation should remain a core part of cognitive science, but that the insights from these alternative approaches must incorporated into models of cognitive processing.
432	dynamical	2003	Gallese, V; Metzinger, T	Motor ontology: the representational reality of goals, actions and selves	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The representational dynamics of the brain is a subsymbolic process, and it has to be conceived as an "agent-free" type of dynamical self-organization. However, in generating a coherent internal world-model, the brain decomposes target space in a certain way. In doing so, it defines an "ontology": to have an ontology is to interpret a world. In this paper we argue that the brain, viewed as a representational system aimed at interpreting the world, possesses an ontology too. It decomposes target space in a way that exhibits certain invariances, which in turn are functionally significant. A challenge for empirical research is to determine which are the functional regularities guiding this decomposition process. What are the explicit and implicit assumptions about the structure of reality, which at the same time shape the causal profile of the brain's motor output and the representational deep structure of the conscious mind arising from it ( its "phenomenal output")? How do they constrain high-level phenomena like conscious experience, the emergence of a first-person perspective, or social cognition? By reviewing a series of neuroscientific results, we focus on the contribution the motor system makes to this process. As it turns out, the motor system constructs goals, actions, and intending selves as basic constituents of the world it interprets. It does so by assigning a single, unified causal role to them. Empirical evidence now clearly shows how the brain actually codes movements and action goals in terms of multimodal representations of organism-object relations. Under a representationalist analysis, this process can be interpreted as an internal representation of the intentionality relation itself. We try to show how such a more complex form of representational content, once it is in place, can later function as the building block for social cognition and a for more complex, consciously experienced representation of the first-person perspective as well. The motor system may therefore play a decisive role in understanding how the functional ontology of the human brain could be gradually extended into the subjective and social domains.
433	dynamical	2014	Maes, PJ; Leman, M; Palmer, C; Wanderley, MM	Action-based effects on music perception	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The classical, disembodied approach to music cognition conceptualizes action and perception as separate, peripheral processes. In contrast, embodied accounts of music cognition emphasize the central role of the close coupling of action and perception. It is a commonly established fact that perception spurs action tendencies. We present a theoretical framework that captures the ways in which the human motor system and its actions can reciprocally influence the perception of music. The cornerstone of this framework is the common coding theory, postulating a representational overlap in the brain between the planning, the execution, and the perception of movement. The integration of action and perception in so-called internal models is explained as a result of associative learning processes. Characteristic of internal models is that they allow intended or perceived sensory states to be transferred into corresponding motor commands (inverse modeling), and vice versa, to predict the sensory outcomes of planned actions (forward modeling). Embodied accounts typically refer to inverse modeling to explain action effects on music perception (Leman, 2007). We extend this account by pinpointing forward modeling as an alternative mechanism by which action can modulate perception. We provide an extensive overview of recent empirical evidence in support of this idea. Additionally, we demonstrate that motor dysfunctions can cause perceptual disabilities, supporting the main idea of the paper that the human motor system plays a functional role in auditory perception. The finding that music perception is shaped by the human motor system and its actions suggests that the musical mind is highly embodied. However, we advocate for a more radical approach to embodied (music) cognition in the sense that it needs to be considered as a dynamical process, in which aspects of action, perception, introspection, and social interaction are of crucial importance.
434	dynamical	2007	Diamond, LM	A Dynamical Systems Approach to the Development and Expression of Female Same-Sex Sexuality	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Researchers have documented substantial variability in the development and expression of same-sex sexuality, especially among women, posing challenges to traditional linear developmental models. In this article, I argue for a new approach to conceptualizing the development and expression of female same-sex sexuality over the life course, based in dynamical systems theory. Dynamical systems models seek to explain how complex patterns emerge, stabilize, change, and restabilize over time. Although originally developed by mathematicians and physicists to model complex physical phenomena in the natural world, they have increasingly been applied to social-behavioral phenomena, ranging from motor development to cognition to language. I demonstrate the utility of this approach for modeling change over time in female same-sex sexuality, reviewing extant published research and also introducing data collected from an ongoing, 10-year longitudinal study of young nonheterosexual women. I provide evidence that female same-sex sexuality demonstrates the emblematic features of a dynamical system: nonlinear change over time, spontaneous emergence of novel forms, and periodic reorganizations and phase transitions within the overall system. I highlight the specific contribution of a dynamical systems perspective for understanding such phenomena and suggest directions for future study.
435	dynamical	2000	Singer, RN	Performance and human factors: considerations about cognition and attention for self-paced and externally-paced events	ERGONOMICS	The cognitive psychology school of thought has spawned models of sequential stages or phases of information processing associated with various tasks. It has encouraged the study of cognitions and attention as related to learning, performance and high levels of achievement in goal-directed complex activities in which movement is the medium of expression. Although more recently proposed dynamical systems models challenge the simplicity of this approach, there is little doubt that the ability to learn as well as to excel in performing movement skills depends to a great degree on the effective self-regulation of cognitive processes in a variety of situations. What to think about (or not think about) prior to, during and even after an event can have great consequences on present and subsequent performance. Relevant externally-provided and self-generated strategies should enable these processes to function at an optimal level, and are the subject of an increasing amount of research. For such purposes, it is convenient to categorize events as self-paced (closed) and externally-paced (open). Examples of both types of events exist in sport as well as in various occupations and recreational activities, with different information processing demands associated with each one. Any breakdown in a particular stage of processing will potentially lead to poorer performance. Special training techniques and strategies are evolving from the cognitive and psychophysiological research literature that might improve the level of functioning at each stage for either self-paced or externally-paced skills.
436	dynamical	2009	Stephen, DG; Dixon, JA; Isenhower, RW	Dynamics of Representational Change: Entropy, Action, and Cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Explaining how the cognitive system can create new structures has been a major challenge for cognitive science. Self-organization from the theory of nonlinear dynamics offers an account of this remarkable phenomenon. Two studies provide an initial test of the hypothesis that the emergence of new cognitive structure follows the same universal principles as emergence in other domains (e.g., fluids, lasers). In both studies, participants initially solved gear-system problems by manually tracing the force across a system of gears. Subsequently, they discovered that the gears form an alternating sequence, thereby demonstrating a new cognitive structure. In both studies, dynamical analyses of action during problem solving predicted the spontaneous emergence of the new cognitive structure. Study I showed that a peak in entropy, followed by negentropy, key indicators of self-organization, predicted discovery of alternation. Study 2 replicated these effects, and showed that increasing environmental entropy accelerated discovery, a classic prediction from dynamics. Additional analyses based on the relationship between phase transitions and power-law behavior provide converging evidence. The studies provide an initial demonstration of the emergence of cognitive structure through self-organization.
437	dynamical	2005	Paulin, MG	Evolution of the cerebellum as a neuronal machine for Bayesian state estimation	JOURNAL OF NEURAL ENGINEERING	The cerebellum evolved in association with the electric sense and vestibular sense of the earliest vertebrates. Accurate information provided by these sensory systems would have been essential for precise control of orienting behavior in predation. A simple model shows that individual spikes in electrosensory primary afferent neurons can be interpreted as measurements of prey location. Using this result, I construct a computational neural model in which the spatial distribution of spikes in a secondary electrosensory map forms a Monte Carlo approximation to the Bayesian posterior distribution of prey locations given the sense data. The neural circuit that emerges naturally to perform this task resembles the cerebellar-like hindbrain electrosensory filtering circuitry of sharks and other electrosensory vertebrates. The optimal filtering mechanism can be extended to handle dynamical targets observed from a dynamical platform; that is, to construct an optimal dynamical state estimator using spiking neurons. This may provide a generic model of cerebellar computation. Vertebrate motion-sensing neurons have specific fractional-order dynamical characteristics that allow Bayesian state estimators to be implemented elegantly and efficiently, using simple operations with asynchronous pulses, i.e. spikes. The computational neural models described in this paper represent a novel kind of particle filter, using spikes as particles. The models are specific and make testable predictions about computational mechanisms in cerebellar circuitry, while providing a plausible explanation of cerebellar contributions to aspects of motor control, perception and cognition.
438	dynamical	2011	Chow, JY; Davids, K; Hristovski, R; Araujo, D; Passos, P	Nonlinear pedagogy: Learning design for self-organizing neurobiological systems	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, key concepts in ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics exemplify how learning design can be shaped by ideas of self-organization, meta-stability and self-organized criticality in complex neurobiological systems. Through interactions with specific ecological constraints in learning environments, cognition, decision making and action emerge. An important design strategy is the use of different types of noise to channel the learning process into meta-stable regions of the "learner-learning environment" system to encourage adaptive behaviors. Here learners can be exposed to many functional and creative performance solutions during training. Data from studies in the performance context of sports are used to illustrate how these theoretical ideas can underpin learning design. Based on these insights a nonlinear pedagogy is proposed in which the role of coaches or trainers alters from a more traditional, prescriptive stance to the mode of manipulating key interacting task constraints including information, space and equipment to facilitate learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
439	dynamical	2004	Bourgine, P; Stewart, J	Autopoiesis and cognition	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	This article revisits the concept of autopoiesis and examines its relation to cognition and life. We present a mathematical model of a 3D tesselation automaton, considered as a minimal example of autopoiesis. This leads us to a thesis T1: "An autopoietic system can be described as a random dynamical system, which is defined only within its organized autopoietic domain." We propose a modified definition of autopoiesis: "An autopoietic system is a network of processes that produces the components that reproduce the network, and that also regulates the boundary conditions necessary for its ongoing existence as a network." We also propose a definition of cognition: "A system is cognitive if and only if sensory inputs serve to trigger actions in a specific way, so as to satisfy a viability constraint." It follows from these definitions that the concepts of autopoiesis and cognition, although deeply related in their connection with the regulation of the boundary conditions of the system, are not immediately identical: a system can be autopoietic without being cognitive, and cognitive without being autopoietic. Finally, we propose a thesis T2: "A system that is both autopoietic and cognitive is a living system."
440	dynamical	2014	Tagliazucchi, E; Carhart-Harris, R; Leech, R; Nutt, D; Chialvo, DR	Enhanced Repertoire of Brain Dynamical States During the Psychedelic Experience	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	The study of rapid changes in brain dynamics and functional connectivity (FC) is of increasing interest in neuroimaging. Brain states departing from normal waking consciousness are expected to be accompanied by alterations in the aforementioned dynamics. In particular, the psychedelic experience produced by psilocybin (a substance found in magic mushrooms) is characterized by unconstrained cognition and profound alterations in the perception of time, space and selfhood. Considering the spontaneous and subjective manifestation of these effects, we hypothesize that neural correlates of the psychedelic experience can be found in the dynamics and variability of spontaneous brain activity fluctuations and connectivity, measurable with functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Fifteen healthy subjects were scanned before, during and after intravenous infusion of psilocybin and an inert placebo. Blood-Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) temporal variability was assessed computing the variance and total spectral power, resulting in increased signal variability bilaterally in the hippocampi and anterior cingulate cortex. Changes in BOLD signal spectral behavior (including spectral scaling exponents) affected exclusively higher brain systems such as the default mode, executive control, and dorsal attention networks. A novel framework enabled us to track different connectivity states explored by the brain during rest. This approach revealed a wider repertoire of connectivity states post-psilocybin than during control conditions. Together, the present results provide a comprehensive account of the effects of psilocybin on dynamical behavior in the human brain at a macroscopic level and may have implications for our understanding of the unconstrained, hyper-associative quality of consciousness in the psychedelic state. Hum Brain Mapp 35:5442-5456, 2014. (c) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
441	dynamical	2009	Stephen, DG; Boncoddo, RA; Magnuson, JS; Dixon, JA	The dynamics of insight: Mathematical discovery as a phase transition	MEMORY & COGNITION	In recent work in cognitive science, it has been proposed that cognition is a self-organizing, dynamical system. However, capturing the real-time dynamics of cognition has been a formidable challenge. Furthermore, it has been unclear whether dynamics could effectively address the emergence of abstract concepts (e.g., language, mathematics). Here, we provide evidence that a quintessentially cognitive phenomenon-the spontaneous discovery of a mathematical relation-emerges through self-organization. Participants solved a series of gear-system problems while we tracked their eye movements. They initially solved the problems by manually simulating the forces of the gears but then spontaneously discovered a mathematical solution. We show that the discovery of the mathematical relation was predicted by changes in entropy and changes in power-law behavior, two hallmarks of phase transitions. Thus, the present study demonstrates the emergence of higher order cognitive phenomena through the nonlinear dynamics of self-organization.
442	dynamical	2009	Vogeley, K; Roepstorff, A	Contextualising culture and social cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive neurosciencists have recently begun to study self-consiousness and intersubjectivity but have not yet taken into account adequately the influence of culture on these phenomena. Here, we argue against the naive inclusion of 'culture' as an additional independent factor that can be empirically addressed adequately merely by considering mother tongue or nationality. Instead, we propose that culture needs to be considered as a dynamical system of individuals; that culture is in continous dialectic interaction and exchange with the individuals that constitute it; and that cultural classifications feed back into social practices and identity processes, hence exhibiting a 'looping effect'. These proposals have important implications for the development of cultural neuroscience.
443	dynamical	2009	Ziemke, T; Lowe, R	On the Role of Emotion in Embodied Cognitive Architectures: From Organisms to Robots	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	The computational modeling of emotion has been an area of growing interest in cognitive robotics research in recent years, but also a source of contention regarding how to conceive of emotion and how to model it. In this paper, emotion is characterized as (a) closely connected to embodied cognition, (b) grounded in homeostatic bodily regulation, and (c) a powerful organizational principle-affective modulation of behavioral and cognitive mechanisms-that is 'useful' in both biological brains and robotic cognitive architectures. We elaborate how emotion theories and models centered on core neurological structures in the mammalian brain, and inspired by embodied, dynamical, and enactive approaches in cognitive science, may impact on computational and robotic modeling. In light of the theoretical discussion, work in progress on the development of an embodied cognitive-affective architecture for robots is presented, incorporating aspects of the theories discussed.
444	dynamical	2007	Hodges, BH	Good prospects: ecological and social perspectives on conforming, creating, and caring in conversation	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Ecological approaches (e.g. [Gibson, J.J., 1979. The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston]) to psychology and language are selectively reviewed, focusing on social learning. Is social learning (e.g., acquiring language) a matter of conformity [Tomasello, M., 2006. Acquiring linguistic constructions. In: D. Kuhn, R.S. Siegler, W. Damon, R.M. Lerner (Eds.), Handbook of Child Psychology, Cognition, Perception, and Language, sixth ed., vol. 2., Wiley, Hoboken, NJ, pp. 255-298], creativity [Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA], or something else? Ecological approaches [Reed, E.S., 1996. Encountering the World: Toward an Ecological Psychology. Oxford University Press, Oxford; Hodges, B.H., Baron, R.M. 1992. Values as constraints on affordances: perceiving and acting properly. Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 22, 263-294] put the focus on values. Reed's account highlights the collective appropriation of affordances, the precocious perception and enactment of "unfilled meanings," and children's becoming persons through the active structuring of their environment (e.g., gestural games, story-telling). Hodges and Baron's account of values as multiple, heterarchical, dynamical, and legitimating constraints on actions is applied to cases of pragmatic rule violations, particularly Hodges and Geyer's [Hodges, B.H., Geyer, A.L., 2006. A nonconformist account of the Asch experiments: Values, pragmatics, and moral dilemmas. Personality and Social Psychology Review 10, 2-19] reinterpretation of Asch's [Asch, S.E., 1956. Studies of independence and conformity: I. A minority of one against a unanimous majority. Psychological Monographs 70, (9) (Whole No. 416)] influential experiments on social influence and perception. These ecological, social, and values-realizing accounts suggest that conversations are about seeking good prospects, caring for others and self, and inviting responsible action. The possibility of language as a perceptual system [Gibson, J.J., 1966. The Senses Considered as Perceptual Systems. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston] for exploring dialogical arrays, and an action system [Reed, E.S., 1982. An outline of a theory of action systems. Journal of Motor Behavior 14, 97-134] for coordinating diverse space-time scales is considered. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
445	dynamical	2011	Rabinovich, MI; Varona, P	Robust transient dynamics and brain functions	FRONTIERS IN COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	In the last few decades several concepts of dynamical systems theory (DST) have guided psychologists, cognitive scientists, and neuroscientists to rethink about sensory motor behavior and embodied cognition. A critical step in the progress of DST application to the brain (supported by modern methods of brain imaging and multi-electrode recording techniques) has been the transfer of its initial success in motor behavior to mental function, i.e., perception, emotion, and cognition. Open questions from research in genetics, ecology, brain sciences, etc., have changed DST itself and lead to the discovery of a new dynamical phenomenon, i.e., reproducible and robust transients that are at the same time sensitive to informational signals. The goal of this review is to describe a new mathematical framework-heteroclinic sequential dynamics-to understand self-organized activity in the brain that can explain certain aspects of robust itinerant behavior. Specifically, we discuss a hierarchy of coarse-grain models of mental dynamics in the form of kinetic equations of modes. These modes compete for resources at three levels: (i) within the same modality, (ii) among different modalities from the same family (like perception), and (iii) among modalities from different families (like emotion and cognition). The analysis of the conditions for robustness, i. e., the structural stability of transient (sequential) dynamics, give us the possibility to explain phenomena like the finite capacity of our sequential working memory-a vital cognitive function-, and to find specific dynamical signatures-different kinds of instabilities-of several brain functions and mental diseases.
446	dynamical	2003	Grush, R	In Defense of some 'Cartesian' assumptions concerning the brain and its operation	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	I argue against a growing radical trend in current theoretical cognitive science that moves from the premises of embedded cognition, embodied cognition, dynamical systems theory and/or situated robotics to conclusions either to the effect that the mind is not in the brain or that cognition does not require representation, or both. I unearth the considerations at the foundation of this view: Haugeland's bandwidth-component argument to the effect that the brain is not a component in cognitive activity, and arguments inspired by dynamical systems theory and situated robotics to the effect that cognitive activity does not involve representations. Both of these strands depend not only on a shift of emphasis from higher cognitive functions to things like sensorimotor processes, but also depend on a certain understanding of how sensorimotor processes are implemented - as closed-loop control systems. I describe a much more sophisticated model of sensorimotor processing that is not only more powerful and robust than simple closed-loop control, but for which there is great evidence that it is implemented in the nervous system. The is the emulation theory of representation, according to which the brain constructs inner dynamical models, or emulators, of the body and environment which are used in parallel with the body and environment to enhance motor control and perception and to provide faster feedback during motor processes, and can be run off-line to produce imagery and evaluate sensorimotor counterfactuals. I then show that the emulation framework is immune to the radical arguments, and makes apparent why the brain is a component in the cognitive activity, and exactly what the representations are in sensorimotor control.
447	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Fuchs, T	The extended body: a case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is a growing realization in cognitive science that a theory of embodied intersubjectivity is needed to better account for social cognition. We highlight some challenges that must be addressed by attempts to interpret 'simulation theory' in terms of embodiment, and argue for an alternative approach that integrates phenomenology and dynamical systems theory in a mutually informing manner. Instead of 'simulation' we put forward the concept of the 'extended body', an enactive and phenomenological notion that emphasizes the socially mediated nature of embodiment. To illustrate the explanatory potential of this approach, we replicate an agent-based model of embodied social interaction. An analysis of the model demonstrates that the extended body can be explained in terms of mutual dynamical entanglement: inter-bodily resonance between individuals can give rise to self-sustaining interaction patterns that go beyond the behavioral capacities of isolated individuals by modulating their intra-bodily conditions of behavior generation.
448	dynamical	2008	Chemero, A; Silberstein, M	After the philosophy of mind: Replacing scholasticism with science	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	We provide a taxonomy of the two most important debates in the philosophy of the cognitive and neural sciences. The first debate is over methodological individualism: is the object of the cognitive and neural sciences the brain, the whole animal, or the animal-environment system? The second is over explanatory style: should explanation in cognitive and neural science be reductionist-mechanistic, interlevel mechanistic, or dynamical? After setting out the debates, we discuss the ways in which they are interconnected. Finally, we make some recommendations that we hope will help philosophers interested in the cognitive and neural sciences to avoid dead ends.
449	dynamical	2006	Barandiaran, X; Moreno, A	On what makes certain dynamical systems cognitive: A minimally cognitive organization program	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Dynamicism has provided cognitive science with important tools to understand some aspects of "how cognitive agents work" but the issue of "what makes something cognitive" has not been sufficiently addressed yet and, we argue, the former will never be complete without the latter. Behavioristic characterizations of cognitive properties are criticized in favor of an organizational approach focused on the internal dynamic relationships that constitute cognitive systems. A definition of cognition as adaptive-autonomy in the embodied and situated neurodynamic domain is provided: the compensatory regulation of a web of stability dependencies between sensorimotor structures is created and preserved during a historical/developmental process. We highlight the functional role of emotional embodiment: internal bioregulatory processes coupled to the formation and adaptive regulation of neurodynamic autonomy. Finally, we discuss a "minimally cognitive behavior program" in evolutionary simulation modeling suggesting that much is to be learned from a complementary "minimally cognitive organization program".
450	dynamical	1996	Eliasmith, C	The third contender: A critical examination of the dynamicist theory of cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a recent series of publications, dynamicist researchers have proposed a new conception of cognitive functioning. This conception is intended to replace the currently dominant theories of connectionism and symbolicism. The dynamicist approach to cognitive modeling employs concepts developed in the mathematical field of dynamical systems theory. They claim that cognitive models should be embedded, low-dimensional, complex, described by coupled differential equations, and non-representational. In this paper I begin with a short description of the dynamicist project and its role as a cognitive theory. Subsequently, I determine the theoretical commitments of dynamicists, critically examine those commitments and discuss current examples of dynamicist models. In conclusion, I determine dynamicism's relation to symbolicism and connectionism and find that the dynamicist goal to establish a new paradigm has yet to be realized.
451	dynamical	2010	Miles, LK; Nind, LK; Henderson, Z; Macrae, CN	Moving memories: Behavioral synchrony and memory for self and others	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Establishing and maintaining connections with others is central to a fulfilling social life In this respect, behavioral coordination provides one avenue by which interpersonal linkages call be formed Drawing from the dynamical systems approach, the present research explored whether temporary interpersonal connections founded oil coordinated behaviour Influence memory for self and others To do so, we measured red participants' Incidental recall of self and other-relevant information after a period of either In-phase or anti-phase interpersonal coordination While participants in the less stable anti-phase condition demonstrated the typical memory advantage for self-related compared to other-related information, tills effect was eliminated when participant and confederate movements displayed in-phase coordination These results are discussed with respect to the interplay between the systems that support interpersonal synchrony and basic social-cognitive processing (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
452	dynamical	2014	Bruineberg, J; Rietveld, E	Self-organization, free energy minimization, and optimal grip on a field of affordances	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper, we set out to develop a theoretical and conceptual framework for the new field of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience. This framework should be able to integrate insights from several relevant disciplines: theory on embodied cognition, ecological psychology, phenomenology, dynamical systems theory, and neurodynamics. We suggest that the main task of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience is to investigate the phenomenon of skilled intentionality from the perspective of the self-organization of the brain-body-environment system, while doing justice to the phenomenology of skilled action. In previous work, we have characterized skilled intentionality as the organism's tendency toward an optimal grip on multiple relevant affordances simultaneously. Affordances are possibilities for action provided by the environment. In the first part of this paper, we introduce the notion of skilled intentionality and the phenomenon of responsiveness to a field of relevant affordances. Second, we use Friston's work on neurodynamics, but embed a very minimal version of his Free Energy Principle in the ecological niche of the animal. Thus amended, this principle is helpful for understanding the embeddedness of neurodynamics within the dynamics of the system "brain-body-landscape of affordances." Next, we show how we can use this adjusted principle to understand the neurodynamics of selective openness to the environment: interacting action-readiness patterns at multiple timescales contribute to the organism's selective openness to relevant affordances. In the final part of the paper, we emphasize the important role of metastable dynamics in both the brain and the brain-body-environment system for adequate affordance-responsiveness. We exemplify our integrative approach by presenting research on the impact of Deep Brain Stimulation on affordance responsiveness of OCD patients.
453	dynamical	2009	Wijnants, ML; Bosman, AMT; Hasselman, F; Cox, RFA; Van Orden, GC	1/f Scaling in Movement Time Changes with Practice in Precision Aiming	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	When people perform repeated goal-directed movements, consecutive movement durations inevitably vary over trials, in poor as well as in skilled performances. The well-established paradigm of precision-aiming is taken as a methodological framework here. Evidence is provided that movement variability in closed tasks is not a random phenomenon, but rather shows a coherent temporal structure, referred to as 1/f scaling. The scaling relation appears more clearly as participants become trained in a highly constrained motor task. Also Recurrence Quantification Analysis (RQA) and Sample Entropy (SampEn) as analytic tools show that variation of movement times becomes less random and more patterned with motor learning. This suggests that motor learning can be regarded as an emergent, dynamical fusing of collaborating subsystems into a lower-dimensional organization. These results support the idea that I If scaling is ubiquitous throughout the cognitive system, and suggest that it plays a fundamental role in the coordination of cognitive as well as motor function.
454	dynamical	2009	Freeman, WJ; Ahlfors, SP; Menon, V	Combining fMRI with EEG and MEG in order to relate patterns of brain activity to cognition	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	The common factor that underlies several types of functional brain imaging is the electric current of masses of dendrites. The prodigious demands for the energy that is required to drive the dendritic currents are met by hemodynamic and metabolic responses that are visualized with fMRI and PET techniques. The high current densities in parallel dendritic shafts and the broad distributions of the loop currents outside the dendrites generate both the scalp EEG and the magnetic fields seen in the MEG. The measurements of image intensities and potential fields provide state variables for modeling. The relationships between the intensities of current density and the electric, magnetic, and hemodynamic state variables are complex and far from proportionate. The state variables are complementary, because the information they convey comes from differing albeit overlapping neural populations, so that efforts to cross-validate localization of neural activity relating to specified cognitive behaviors have not always been successful. We propose an alternative way to use the three methods in combination through studies of hemisphere-wide, high-resolution spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity recorded non-invasively and analyzed with multivariate statistics. Success in this proposed endeavor requires specification of what patterns to look for. At the present level of understanding, an appropriate pattern is any significant departure from random noise in the spectral, temporal and spatial domains that can be scaled into the coarse-graining of time by fMRI/BOLD and the coarse-graining of space by EEG and MEG. Here the requisite patterns are predicted to be large-scale spatial amplitude modulation (AM) of synchronized neuronal signals in the beta and gamma ranges that are coordinated but not correlated with fMRI intensities. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
455	dynamical	2002	Thagard, P; Nerb, J	Emotional gestalts: Appraisal, change, and the dynamics of affect	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	This article interprets emotional change as a transition in a complex dynamical system. We argue that the appropriate kind of dynamical system is one that extends recent work on how neural networks can perform parallel constraint satisfaction. Parallel processes that integrate both cognitive and affective constraints can give rise to states that we call emotional gestalts, and transitions can be understood as emotional gestalt shifts. We describe computational models that simulate such phenomena in ways that show how dynamical and gestalt metaphors can be given a concrete realization.
456	dynamical	2013	Buhrmann, T; Di Paolo, EA; Barandiaran, X	A dynamical systems account of sensorimotor contingencies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to the sensorimotor approach, perception is a form of embodied know-how, constituted by lawful regularities in the sensorimotor flow or in sensorimotor contingencies (SMCs) in an active and situated agent. Despite the attention that this approach has attracted, there have been few attempts to define its core concepts formally. In this paper, we examine the idea of SMCs and argue that its use involves notions that need to be distinguished. We introduce four distinct kinds of SMCs, which we define operationally. These are the notions of sensorimotor environment (open-loop motor-induced sensory variations), sensorimotor habitat (closed-loop sensorimotor trajectories), sensorimotor coordination (reliable sensorimotor patterns playing a functional role), and sensorimotor strategy (normative organization of sensorimotor coordinations). We make use of a minimal dynamical model of visually guided categorization to test the explanatory value of the different kinds of SMCs. Finally, we discuss the impact of our definitions on the conceptual development and empirical as well as model-based testing of the claims of the sensorimotor approach.
457	dynamical	2009	Iyer, LR; Doboli, S; Minai, AA; Brown, VR; Levine, DS; Paulus, PB	Neural dynamics of idea generation and the effects of priming	NEURAL NETWORKS	Idea generation is a fundamental attribute of the human mind, but the cognitive and neural mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. In this paper, we present a dynamic connectionist model for the generation of ideas within a brainstorming context. The key hypothesis underlying the model is that ideas emerge naturally from itinerant attractor dynamics in a multi-level, modular semantic space, and the potential Surface underlying this dynamics is itself shaped dynamically by task context, ongoing evaluative feedback, inhibitory modulation, and short-term synaptic modification. While abstract, the model attempts to capture the interplay between semantic representations, working memory, attentional selection, reinforcement signals, and modulation. We show that, once trained on a set of contexts and ideas, the system can rapidly recall stored ideas in familiar contexts, and can generate novel ideas by efficient. multi-level dynamical search in both familiar and unfamiliar contexts. We also use a simplified continuous-time instantiation of the model to explore the effect of priming on idea generation. In particular, we consider how priming low-accessible categories in a connectionist semantic network can lead to the generation of novel ideas. The mapping of the model onto various regions and modulatory processes in the brain is also discussed briefly. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
458	dynamical	2000	Seitz, JA	The bodily basis of thought	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Classical cognitivist and connectionist models posit a Cartesian disembodiment of mind assuming that brain events can adequately explain thought and related notions such as intellect. Instead, we argue for the bodily basis of thought and its continuity beyond the sensorimotor stage. Indeed, there are no eternally fixed representations of the external world in the "motor system", rather, it is under the guidance of both internal and external factors with important linkages to frontal, parietal, cerebellar, basal ganglionic, and cingulate gyrus areas that subserve cognitive and motivational activities. Indeed, the motor system, including related structures, is a self-organizing dynamical system contextualized among musculoskeletal, environmental (e.g,, gravity), and social forces. We do not simply inhabit our bodies; we literally use them to think with. "The words of language, as they are written or spoken, do not seem to play any role in my mechanism or thought. The psychical entities which seem to serve as elements in thought are certain signs and more or less clear images which can be "voluntarily" reproduced and combined..,. The above mentioned elements are, in my case, of visual and some of muscular type" (Einstein quoted in Hadamard, 1996, The mathematician's mind: The psychology of invention in the mathematical field. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press (original work published 1945).) (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
459	dynamical	2009	Cowley, SJ	Distributed language and dynamics INTRODUCTION	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	Language is coordination. Pursuing this, the present Special Issue of Pragmatics & Cognition challenges two widely held positions. First, the papers reject the claim that language is essentially 'symbolic'. Second, they deny that minds (or brains) represent verbal patterns. Rather, language is social, individual, and contributes the feeling of thinking. Simply, it is distributed. Elucidating this claim, the opening papers report empirically-based work on the anticipatory dynamics of reading, their cognitive consequences, Shakespearean theatre, what images evoke, and insight problem-solving. Having given reasons for rejecting linguistic autonomy, the papers turn to theory building. Initially, attention is given to a possible origin for semiotic cognition. Then, it is claimed that language functions by realizing values. Next, it is argued that human dynamics are co-regulated by cultural and biological symbols. Finally, in a review article, the distributed view of language is used to contrast Clark's (2008) organism-centered cognition with what is here called ecologically extended cognition.
460	dynamical	2012	Meehan, TP; Bressler, SL	Neurocognitive networks: Findings, models, and theory	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Through its early history, cognitive neuroscience largely followed a modular paradigm wherein high-level cognitive functions were mapped onto locally segregated brain regions. However, recent evidence drives a continuing shift away from modular theories of cognitive brain function, and toward theories which hold that cognition arises from the integrated activity of large-scale, distributed networks of brain regions. A growing consensus favors the fundamental concept of this new paradigm: the large-scale cognitive brain network, or neurocognitive network. This consensus was the motivation for Neurocognitive Networks 2010 (NCN 2010), a conference sponsored by the Cognitive Neuroscience Program of the National Science Foundation, organized by Drs. Steven Bressler and Craig Richter of Florida Atlantic University (FAU), and held at FAU in Boca Raton, FL on January 29-30, 2010. NCN 2010 gathered together some of today's leading investigators of neurocognitive networks. This paper serves to review their presentations as they relate to the paradigm of neurocognitive networks, as well as to compile the emergent themes, questions, and possible future research directions that arose from the conference. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
461	dynamical	2008	Vernon, D	Cognitive vision: The case for embodied perception	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	This paper considers arguments for the necessity of embodiment in cognitive vision systems. We begin by delineating the scope of cognitive vision, and follow this by a survey of the various approaches that can be taken to the realization of artificial cognitive vision systems, focussing on cognitive aspects. These range from the cognitivist symbolic representational paradigm, through connectionist systems and self-organizing dynamical systems, to the enactive cognition paradigm. We then consider various arguments for embodiment, beginning with paradigm-specific cases, and concluding with a paradigm-independent argument for embodied perception and cognition. We explore briefly different forms of embodiment and their relevance to the foregoing viewpoints. We highlight some of the key problems associated with embodied cognitive vision, including the phylogeny/ontogeny trade-off in artificial systems and the developmental limitations imposed by real-time environmental coupling. Finally, we conclude by considering some aspects of natural cognitive systems to see how they can provide insights to help in addressing these problems. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
462	dynamical	2003	Haselager, P; de Groot, A; van Rappard, H	Representationalism vs. anti-representationalism: a debate for the sake of appearance	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In recent years the cognitive science community has witnessed the rise of a new, dynamical approach to cognition. This approach entails a framework in which cognition and behavior are taken to result from complex dynamical interactions between brain, body, and environment. The advent of the dynamical approach is grounded in a dissatisfaction with the classical computational view of cognition. A particularly strong claim has been that cognitive systems do not rely on internal representations and computations. Focusing on this claim, we take as a starting point a question recently raised by Cliff and Noble: "... if evolution did produce a design that used internal representations, how would we recognize it?" (Knowledge-based vision and simple visual machines, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society: Biological Sciences, 352, 1165-1175, 1997). We will argue that cognitive science lacks a proper operationalization of the notion of representation, and therefore is unable to ftuitfully discuss whether a particular system has representations or not. A basic method to detect representations in a physical system, grounded in isomorphism, turns out to be quite unconstrained. We will look at a practical example of this problem by examining the debate on whether or not van Gelder's (What might cognition be, if not computation? Journal of Philosophy, 92, 345-381, 1995) controversial example of the Watt Governor is representational. We will conclude that cognitive science, as of yet, has no empirically applicable means to answer Cliff and Noble's question unequivocally. This makes the recent representationalism vs. anti-representationalism debate a debate for the sake of appearance.
463	dynamical	2005	Dale, R; Spivey, MJ	From apples and oranges to symbolic dynamics: a framework for conciliating notions of cognitive representation	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	We introduce symbolic dynamics to cognitive scientists with the aim of furthering constructive debate on representation. Symbolic dynamics is a mathematical framework in which both continuous and discrete states of a system can be considered jointly. We discuss a number of theoretical implications this framework has for cognitive science, and offer some consideration of the way in which it might be employed for comparing or conciliating discrete and continuous representational theories. Symbolic dynamics may thus serve as a common, level playing field for debate in theories of cognitive representation.
464	dynamical	2004	Beer, RD	Autopoiesis and cognition in the game of life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	Maturana and Varela's notion of autopoiesis has the potential to transform the conceptual foundation of biology as well as the cognitive, behavioral, and brain sciences. In order to fully realize this potential, however, the concept of autopoiesis and its many consequences require significant further theoretical and empirical development. A crucial step in this direction is the formulation and analysis of models of autopoietic systems. This article sketches the beginnings of such a project by examining a glider from Conway's game of life in autopoietic terms. Such analyses can clarify some of the key ideas underlying autopoiesis and draw attention to some of the central open issues. This article also examines the relationship between an autopoietic perspective on cognition and recent work on dynamical approaches to the behavior and cognition of situated, embodied agents.
465	dynamical	2014	Palermos, SO	Loops, constitution, and cognitive extension	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The 'causal-constitution' fallacy, the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and the persisting theoretical confusion about the fundamental difference between the hypotheses of embedded (HEMC) and extended (HEC) cognition are three interrelated worries, whose common point-and the problem they accentuate-is the lack of a principled criterion of constitution. Attempting to address the 'causal-constitution' fallacy, mathematically oriented philosophers of mind have previously suggested that the presence of non-linear relations between the inner and the outer contributions is sufficient for cognitive extension. The abstract idea of non-linearity, however, can be easily misunderstood and has, in the past, led to incorrect and counterintuitive conclusions about what may count as part of one's overall cognitive system. In order to prevent any further mistakes I revisit dynamical systems theory to study the nature of the continuous mutual interactions that give rise to the aforementioned non-linear relations. Moreover, focusing on these interactions will allow us to provide two distinct arguments in support of the ontological postulation of extended cognitive systems, as well as an objective criterion of constitution. Accordingly, I put forward a version of HEC that treats continuous mutual interactions (and the resultant non-linear relations) not just as sufficient but also as necessary for cognitive extension. Such a qualified version of HEC may exclude certain alleged cases of cognitive extension where the agent does not mutually interact with his artifacts (e. g., shopping lists and directory services), but it is immune both to the 'causal-constitution' fallacy and the 'cognitive bloat' worry, and it can be sharply distinguished from HEMC. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
466	dynamical	2007	Iizuka, H; Di Paolo, EA	Toward spinozist robotics: Exploring the minimal dynamics of Behavioral preference	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	A preference is not located anywhere in the agent's cognitive architecture, but it is rather a constraining of behavior which is in turn shaped by behavior. Based on this idea, a minimal model of behavioral preference is proposed. A simulated mobile agent is modeled with a plastic neurocontroller, which holds two separate high dimensional homeostatic boxes in the space of neural dynamics. An evolutionary algorithm is used for creating a link between the boxes and the performance of two different phototactic behaviors. After evolution, the agent's performance exhibits some important aspects of behavioral preferences such as durability and transitions. This article demonstrates (1) the logical consistency of the multi-causal view by producing a case study of its viability and providing insights into its dynamical basis and (2) how durability and transitions arise through the mutual constraining of internal and external dynamics in the flow of alternating high and low susceptibility to environmental variations. Implications for modeling autonomy are discussed.
467	dynamical	2015	Kringelbach, ML; McIntosh, AR; Ritter, P; Jirsa, VK; Deco, G	The Reciscovery of Slowness: Exploring the Timing of Cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Slowness of thought is not necessarily a handicap but could be a signature of optimal brain function. Emerging evidence shows that neuroanatomical and dynamical constraints of the human brain shape its functionality in optimal ways, characterized by slowness during task-based cognition in the context of spontaneous resting-state activity. This activity can be described mechanistically by whole-brain computational modeling that relates directly to optimality in the context of theories arguing for metastability in the brain. We discuss the role for optimal processing of information in the context of cognitive, task-related activity, and propose that combining multi-modal neuroimaging and explicit whole-brain models focused on the timing of functional dynamics can help to uncover fundamental rules of brain function in health and disease.
468	dynamical	2014	Neftci, E; Das, S; Pedroni, B; Kreutz-Delgado, K; Cauwenberghs, G	Event-driven contrastive divergence for spiking neuromorphic systems	FRONTIERS IN NEUROSCIENCE	Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) and Deep Belief Networks have been demonstrated to perform efficiently in a variety of applications, such as dimensionality reduction, feature learning, and classification. Their implementation on neuromorphic hardware platforms emulating large-scale networks of spiking neurons can have significant advantages from the perspectives of scalability, power dissipation and real-time interfacing with the environment. However, the traditional RBM architecture and the commonly used training algorithm known as Contrastive Divergence (CD) are based on discrete updates and exact arithmetics which do not directly map onto a dynamical neural substrate. Here, we present an event-driven variation of CD to train a RBM constructed with Integrate & Fire (I&F) neurons, that is constrained by the limitations of existing and near future neuromorphic hardware platforms. Our strategy is based on neural sampling, which allows us to synthesize a spiking neural network that samples from a target Boltzmann distribution. The recurrent activity of the network replaces the discrete steps of the CD algorithm, while Spike Time Dependent Plasticity (STDP) carries out the weight updates in an online, asynchronous fashion. We demonstrate our approach by training an RBM composed of leaky l&F neurons with STDP synapses to learn a generative model of the MNIST hand-written digit dataset, and by testing it in recognition, generation and cue integration tasks. Our results contribute to a machine learning-driven approach for synthesizing networks of spiking neurons capable of carrying out practical, high-level functionality.
469	dynamical	2009	Sloman, A	Some Requirements for Human-Like Robots: Why the Recent Over-Emphasis on Embodiment Has Held Up Progress	CREATING BRAIN-LIKE INTELLIGENCE: FROM BASIC PRINCIPLES TO COMPLEX INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS	Some issues concerning requirements for architectures, mechanisms, ontologies and form, of representation in intelligent human-like or animal-like robots are discussed. The tautology that a robot that acts and perceives ill the world must be embodied is often combined with false premises, such as the premiss that, a particular type of body is a requirement for intelligence, or for human intelligence, or the premiss that all cognition is concerned with sensorimotor interactions, or the premiss that all cognition is implemented ill dynamical systems closely coupled with sensors and effectors. It is time to step back and ask what robotic research ill the past decade has been ignoring. I shall try to identify some major research gaps by a combination of assembling requirements that have been largely ignored and design ideas that have not been investigated partly because at present it, is too difficult to make Significant progress on those problems with physical robots, as too many different problems need to be solved simultaneously. In particular, the importance of studying some abstract features of the, environment, about which the animal or robot has to learn (extending ideas of J.J.Gibson) has not been widely appreciated.
470	dynamical	2001	Kelly, A; Heathcote, A; Heath, R; Longstaff, M	Response-time dynamics: Evidence for linear and low-dimensional nonlinear structure in human choice sequences	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY SECTION A-HUMAN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Response time (RT) is a commonly used measure of cognitive performance, which is usually characterized as stochastic. However, useful information may be hidden in the apparently random fluctuations of RT. Dynamical systems analysis techniques allow an exploration of the alternative hypothesis that RT fluctuations are deterministic, albeit in a complex manner. We applied careful task construction and noise-reduction and surrogate series tests to show that RT series from a forced-pace serial response-time task have low-dimensional chaotic characteristics. In Experiment 1, 80% of subjects' filtered RT series had low dimensionality, sensitive dependence on initial conditions, spectra close to I If, and stable attractor geometry across sessions. In Experiment 2, we showed that the size of the inter-stimulus interval (ISI) determined the number of subjects with low-dimensional chaotic series. A small ISI caused 100% of subjects to respond in the chaotic regime, whereas only 25% had a low-dimensional chaotic RT component when the ISI was large. We argue that demanding task requirements cause a reduction in the dimensionality of the dynamics, producing RT fluctuations that may reflect a response strategy for controlling RT.
471	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Gallagher, S	Getting interaction theory (IT) together Integrating developmental, phenomenological, enactive, and dynamical approaches to social interaction	INTERACTION STUDIES	We argue that progress in our scientific understanding of the 'social mind' is hampered by a number of unfounded assumptions. We single out the widely shared assumption that social behavior depends solely on the capacities of an individual agent. In contrast, both developmental and phenomenological studies suggest that the personal-level capacity for detached 'social cognition' (conceived as a process of theorizing about and/or simulating another mind) is a secondary achievement that is dependent on more immediate processes of embodied social interaction. We draw on the enactive approach to cognitive science to further clarify this strong notion of 'social interaction' in theoretical terms. In addition, we indicate how this interaction theory (IT) could eventually be formalized with the help of a dynamical systems perspective on the interaction process, especially by making use of evolutionary robotics modeling. We conclude that bringing together the methods and insights of developmental, phenomenological, enactive and dynamical approaches to social interaction can provide a promising framework for future research.
472	dynamical	2012	Riley, MA; Shockley, K; Van Orden, G	Learning From the Body About the Mind	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In some areas of cognitive science we are confronted with ultrafast cognition, exquisite context sensitivity, and scale-free variation in measured cognitive activities. To move forward, we suggest a need to embrace this complexity, equipping cognitive science with tools and concepts used in the study of complex dynamical systems. The science of movement coordination has benefited already from this change, successfully circumventing analogous paradoxes by treating human activities as phenomena of self-organization. Therein, action and cognition are seen to be emergent in ultrafast symmetry breaking across the brain and body; exquisitely constituted of the otherwise trivial details of history, context, and environment; and exhibiting the characteristic scale-free signature of self-organization.
473	dynamical	2008	Edelman, S	On the nature of minds, or: truth and consequences	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Are minds really dynamical or are they really symbolic? Because minds are bundles of computations, and because computation is always a matter of interpretation of one system by another, minds are necessarily symbolic. Because minds, along with everything else in the universe, are physical, and insofar as the laws of physics are dynamical, minds are necessarily dynamical systems. Thus, the short answer to the opening question is 'yes'. It makes sense to ask further whether some of the computations that constitute a human mind are constrained by functional, algorithmic, or implementational factors to be essentially of the discrete symbolic variety (even if they supervene on an apparently continuous dynamical substrate). I suggest that here too the answer is 'yes' and discuss the need for such discrete, symbolic cognitive computations in communication-related tasks.
474	dynamical	1994	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	A NONCLASSICAL FRAMEWORK FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	SYNTHESE	David Marr provided a useful framework for theorizing about cognition within classical, AI-style cognitive science, in terms of three levels of description:  the levels of (i) cognitive function, (ii) algorithm and (iii) physical implementation.  We generalize this framework:  (i) cognitive state transitions, (ii) mathematical/functional design and (iii) physical implementation or realization.  Specifying the middle, design level to be the theory of dynamical systems yields a nonclassical, alternative framework that suits (but is not committed to) connectionism.  We consider how a brain's (or a network's) being a dynamical system might be the key both to its realizing various essential features of cognition - productivity, systematicity, structure-sensitive processing, syntax - and also to a non-classical solution of (frame-type) problems plaguing classical cognitive science.
475	dynamical	2011	Spencer, JP; Perone, S; Buss, AT	Twenty Years and Going Strong: A Dynamic Systems Revolution in Motor and Cognitive Development	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	This article reviews the major contributions of dynamic systems theory (DST) in advancing thinking about development, the empirical insights the theory has generated, and the key challenges for the theory on the horizon. The first section discusses the emergence of DST in developmental science, the core concepts of the theory, and the resonance it has with other approaches that adopt a systems metatheory. The second section reviews the work of Esther Thelen and colleagues, who revolutionized how researchers think about the field of motor development. It also reviews recent extensions of this work to the domain of cognitive development. Here, the focus is on dynamic field theory, a formal, neurally grounded approach that has yielded novel insights into the embodied nature of cognition. The final section proposes that the key challenge on the horizon is to formally specify how interactions among multiple levels of analysis and across multiple time scales create developmental change.
476	dynamical	2011	Zibner, SKU; Faubel, C; Iossifidis, I; Schoner, G	Dynamic Neural Fields as Building Blocks of a Cortex-Inspired Architecture for Robotic Scene Representation	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	Based on the concepts of dynamic field theory (DFT), we present an architecture that autonomously generates scene representations by controlling gaze and attention, creating visual objects in the foreground, tracking objects, reading them into working memory, and taking into account their visibility. At the core of this architecture are three-dimensional dynamic neural fields (DNFs) that link feature to spatial information. These three-dimensional fields couple into lower dimensional fields, which provide the links to the sensory surface and to the motor systems. We discuss how DNFs can be used as building blocks for cognitive architectures, characterize the critical bifurcations in DNFs, as well as the possible coupling structures among DNFs. In a series of robotic experiments, we demonstrate how the DNF architecture provides the core functionalities of a scene representation.
477	dynamical	2009	Murphy, N	Downward Causation and the Neurobiology of Free Will Introduction and Overview	DOWNWARD CAUSATION AND THE NEUROBIOLOGY OF FREE WILL	This chapter provides an overview of some of the history of debates regarding free will, and concurs with several authors who claim that the philosophical discussions have reached a stalemate due to their focus on a metaphysical doctrine Of universal determinism. The way ahead, therefore, requires two developments. One is to focus not on determinism but on reductionism; the other is to attend to specific scientific findings that appear to call free will into question. The chapter provides an introduction to the topics of reductionism, emergence, and downward causation, and then surveys the works of Daniel Wegner and Benjamin Libet, which have been taken to show the irrelevance of conscious will in human action. It summarizes the chapters comprising the rest of the volume, and then offers a reflection on the achievement of the work as a whole - in brief, a critique of free-will skeptics based on human capacities such as meta-cognition and long-term planning, which allow agents to exert downward control on neural processes and behavior. It ends by highlighting, in light of Alasdair MacIntyre's work on moral responsibility, an important additional factor involved in creating the possibility for freedom of choice, namely the possession of abstract symbolic language.
478	dynamical	2010	Raczaszek-Leonardi, J	Multiple Time-Scales of Language Dynamics: An Example From Psycholinguistics	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Linguistic forms are sustained by and, in turn, harness rich dynamics. Dynamical events, important for language, span timescales from milliseconds of brain activity to hundreds of milliseconds of individual cognitive processing, seconds and minutes of interaction, months and years of language acquisition, and hundreds of years of cultural language evolution. These events involve levels ranging from an individual brain, to dyads, to groups, to populations. This article aims to demonstrate that recognition of this complexity gives a different perspective on ogroundingo of linguistic symbols. At the same time it attempts a preliminary systematization of the variety of dynamics that might be important. Finally, an example from psycholinguistic research is presented to show the necessity of including multiple levels and timescales in the explanation of interaction between language and other cognitive processes.
479	dynamical	2008	Walmsley, J	Explanation in dynamical cognitive science	MINDS AND MACHINES	In this paper, I outline two strands of evidence for the conclusion that the dynamical approach to cognitive science both seeks and provides covering law explanations. Two of the most successful dynamical models-Kelso's model of rhythmic finger movement and Thelen et al.'s model of infant perseverative reaching-can be seen to provide explanations which conform to the famous explanatory scheme first put forward by Hempel and Oppenheim. In addition, many prominent advocates of the dynamical approach also express the provision of this kind of explanation as a goal of dynamical cognitive science. I conclude by briefly outlining two consequences. First, dynamical cognitive science's explanatory style may strengthen its links to the so-called "situated" approach to cognition, but, secondly, it may also undermine the widespread intuition that dynamics is related to emergentism in the philosophy of mind.
480	dynamical	1998	Clark, A	Time and mind	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
481	dynamical	2015	Kiverstein, J; Miller, M	The embodied brain: towards a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this programmatic paper we explain why a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience is needed. We argue for such a claim based on problems that have arisen in cognitive neuroscience for the project of localizing function to specific brain structures. The problems come from research concerned with functional and structural connectivity that strongly suggests that the function a brain region serves is dynamic, and changes over time. We argue that in order to determine the function of a specific brain area, neuroscientists need to zoom out and look at the larger organism-environment system. We therefore argue that instead of looking to cognitive psychology for an analysis of psychological functions, cognitive neuroscience should look to an ecological dynamical psychology. A second aim of our paper is to develop an account of embodied cognition based on the inseparability of cognitive and emotional processing in the brain. We argue that emotions are best understood in terms of action readiness (Frijda, 1986, 2007) in the context of the organism's ongoing skillful engagement with the environment (Rietveld, 2008: Bruineberg arid Rietveld, 2014, Kiverstein and Rietveld, 2015, forthcoming). States of action readiness involve the whole living body of the organism, and are elicited by possibilities for action in the environment that matter to the organism. Since emotion and cognition are inseparable processes in the brain it follows that what is true of emotion is also true of cognition. Cognitive processes are likewise processes taking place in the whole living body of an organism as it engages with relevant possibilities for action.
482	dynamical	2014	Witherington, DC	Self-Organization and Explanatory Pluralism: Avoiding the Snares of Reductionism in Developmental Science	RESEARCH IN HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Over the last 20 years, the concept of self-organization has played a central role in efforts to establish a relational metatheoretical approach to the study of development. Yet the notion of self-organization that predominates in scientific discussions today has undergone a conceptual narrowing relative to the broader use and interpretation of self-organization that characterized the biologically-oriented systems thinking of Weiss and von Bertalanffy and was grounded in Kant's teleological account of organisms as natural ends or purposes. In this article, the author discusses how our conceptual use of self-organization in developmental science has changed under the influence of nonlinear dynamical systems theory and how these changes could actually foster rather than discourage new forms of reductionism in our thinking about development.
483	dynamical	2013	Villacorta-Atienza, JA; Makarov, VA	Neural Network Architecture for Cognitive Navigation in Dynamic Environments	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS	Navigation in time-evolving environments with moving targets and obstacles requires cognitive abilities widely demonstrated by even simplest animals. However, it is a long-standing challenging problem for artificial agents. Cognitive autonomous robots coping with this problem must solve two essential tasks: 1) understand the environment in terms of what may happen and how I can deal with this and 2) learn successful experiences for their further use in an automatic subconscious way. The recently introduced concept of compact internal representation (CIR) provides the ground for both the tasks. CIR is a specific cognitive map that compacts time-evolving situations into static structures containing information necessary for navigation. It belongs to the class of global approaches, i.e., it finds trajectories to a target when they exist but also detects situations when no solution can be found. Here we extend the concept of situations with mobile targets. Then using CIR as a core, we propose a closed-loop neural network architecture consisting of conscious and subconscious pathways for efficient decision-making. The conscious pathway provides solutions to novel situations if the default subconscious pathway fails to guide the agent to a target. Employing experiments with roving robots and numerical simulations, we show that the proposed architecture provides the robot with cognitive abilities and enables reliable and flexible navigation in realistic time-evolving environments. We prove that the subconscious pathway is robust against uncertainty in the sensory information. Thus if a novel situation is similar but not identical to the previous experience (because of, e. g., noisy perception) then the subconscious pathway is able to provide an effective solution.
484	dynamical	2012	D'Mello, S; Dale, R; Graesser, A	Disequilibrium in the mind, disharmony in the body	COGNITION & EMOTION	Although it is generally acknowledged that experiences of frustration, confusion, and anxiety are embodied phenomena, very little is known about how these processes modulate presumably unconscious, but constantly present, subtle bodily movement. We addressed this problem by tracking the low-level dynamics of body movement, using 1/f noise, pink noise, or "fractal scaling", during naturalistic experiences of affect in two studies involving deep learning and effortful problem-solving. Our results indicate that body movement fluctuations of individuals experiencing cognitive equilibrium was characteristic of correlated pink noise, but there was a whitening of the signal when participants experienced states that are diagnostic of cognitive distress such as anxiety, confusion, and frustration. We orient our findings within theories that emphasise the embodied nature of cognition and affect and with perspectives that view affective and cognitive processes as emergent products of a self-organising dynamical system (the brain) that is inextricably coupled to the body.
485	dynamical	2012	Silberstein, M; Chemero, A	Complexity and Extended Phenomenological-Cognitive Systems	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The complex systems approach to cognitive science invites a new understanding of extended cognitive systems. According to this understanding, extended cognitive systems are heterogenous, composed of brain, body, and niche, non-linearly coupled to one another. This view of cognitive systems, as non-linearly coupled brainbodyniche systems, promises conceptual and methodological advances. In this article we focus on two of these. First, the fundamental interdependence among brain, body, and niche makes it possible to explain extended cognition without invoking representations or computation. Second, cognition and conscious experience can be understood as a single phenomenon, eliminating fruitless philosophical discussion of qualia and the so-called hard problem of consciousness. What we call extended phenomenological-cognitive systems are relational and dynamical entities, with interactions among heterogeneous parts at multiple spatial and temporal scales.
486	dynamical	2012	Wagenmakers, EJ; van der Maas, HLJ; Farrell, S	Abstract Concepts Require Concrete Models: Why Cognitive Scientists Have Not Yet Embraced Nonlinearly Coupled, Dynamical, Self-Organized Critical, Synergistic, Scale-Free, Exquisitely Context-Sensitive, Interaction-Dominant, Multifractal, Interdependent Brain-Body-Niche Systems	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	After more than 15 years of study, the 1/f noise or complex-systems approach to cognitive science has delivered promises of progress, colorful verbiage, and statistical analyses of phenomena whose relevance for cognition remains unclear. What the complex-systems approach has arguably failed to deliver are concrete insights about how people perceive, think, decide, and act. Without formal models that implement the proposed abstract concepts, the complex-systems approach to cognitive science runs the danger of becoming a philosophical exercise in futility. The complex-systems approach can be informative and innovative, but only if it is implemented as a formal model that allows concrete prediction, falsification, and comparison against more traditional approaches.
487	dynamical	2011	Kukona, A; Tabor, W	Impulse Processing: A Dynamical Systems Model of Incremental Eye Movements in the Visual World Paradigm	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The Visual World Paradigm (VWP) presents listeners with a challenging problem: They must integrate two disparate signals, the spoken language and the visual context, in support of action (e.g., complex movements of the eyes across a scene). We present Impulse Processing, a dynamical systems approach to incremental eye movements in the visual world that suggests a framework for integrating language, vision, and action generally. Our approach assumes that impulses driven by the language and the visual context impinge minutely on a dynamical landscape of attractors corresponding to the potential eye-movement behaviors of the system. We test three unique predictions of our approach in an empirical study in the VWP, and describe an implementation in an artificial neural network. We discuss the Impulse Processing framework in relation to other models of the VWP.
488	dynamical	2006	Briggman, KL; Abarbanel, HDI; Kristan, WB	From crawling to cognition: analyzing the dynamical interactions among populations of neurons	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	By using multi-electrode arrays or optical imaging, investigators can now record from many individual neurons in various parts of nervous systems simultaneously while an animal performs sensory, motor or cognitive tasks. Given the large multidimensional datasets that are now routinely generated, it is often not obvious how to find meaningful results within the data. The analysis of neuronal-population recordings typically involves two steps: the extraction of relevant dynamics from neural data, and then use of the dynamics to classify and discriminate features of a stimulus or behavior. We focus on the application of techniques that emphasize interactions among the recorded neurons rather than using just the correlations between individual neurons and a perception or a behavior. An understanding of modern analysis techniques is crucially important for researchers interested in the co-varying activity among populations of neurons or even brain regions.
489	dynamical	1998	Crutchfield, JP	Dynamical embodiments of computation in cognitive processes	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Dynamics is not enough for cognition, nor it is a substitute for information-processing aspects of brain behavior. Moreover, dynamics and computation are not at odds, but are quite compatible. They can be synthesized so that any dynamical system can be analyzed in terms of its intrinsic computational components.
490	dynamical	2016	Fusaroli, R; Tylen, K	Investigating Conversational Dynamics: Interactive Alignment, Interpersonal Synergy, and Collective Task Performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study investigates interpersonal processes underlying dialog by comparing two approaches, interactive alignment and interpersonal synergy, and assesses how they predict collective performance in a joint task. While the interactive alignment approach highlights imitative patterns between interlocutors, the synergy approach points to structural organization at the level of the interactionsuch as complementary patterns straddling speech turns and interlocutors. We develop a general, quantitative method to assess lexical, prosodic, and speech/pause patterns related to the two approaches and their impact on collective performance in a corpus of task-oriented conversations. The results show statistical presence of patterns relevant for both approaches. However, synergetic aspects of dialog provide the best statistical predictors of collective performance and adding aspects of the alignment approach does not improve the model. This suggests that structural organization at the level of the interaction plays a crucial role in task-oriented conversations, possibly constraining and integrating processes related to alignment.
491	dynamical	2013	Chemero, A	Radical Embodied Cognitive Science	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper briefly introduces radical embodied cognitive science (RECS) and places it in historical perspective. Radical embodied cognitive science is an interdisciplinary approach to psychology that combines ideas from the phenomenological tradition with ecological psychology and dynamical systems modeling. It is argued that radical embodied cognitive science has a long history; it is as a direct descendent of the Jamesian functionalist approach to psychology. This approach to psychology is contrasted with the current trend of supplementing standard cognitive psychology with occasional references to the body, in contrast with these trends, radical embodied cognitive science is skeptical of the explanatory usefulness of mental representations. The future prospects of radical embodied cognitive science and the broader functionalist framework are discussed.
492	dynamical	2012	Kiverstein, J	The Meaning of Embodiment	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There is substantial disagreement among philosophers of embodied cognitive science about the meaning of embodiment. In what follows, I describe three different views that can be found in the current literature. I show how this debate centers around the question of whether the science of embodied cognition can retain the computer theory of mind. One view, which I will label body functionalism, takes the body to play the functional role of linking external resources for problem solving with internal biological machinery. Embodiment is thus understood in terms of the role the body plays in supporting the computational circuits that realize cognition. Body enactivism argues by contrast that no computational account of cognition can account for the role of commonsense knowledge in our everyday practical engagement with the world. I will attempt a reconciliation of these seemingly opposed views.
493	dynamical	2005	Petersson, KM	On the relevance of the neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture	NEUROCOMPUTING	We present two simple arguments for the potential relevance of a neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture. The first assumes the classical cognitive framework, is well-known, and is based on the assumption that the brain is finite with respect to its memory organization. The second is formulated within a general dynamical systems framework and is based on the assumption that the brain sustains some level of noise and/or does not utilize infinite precision processing. We briefly review the classical cognitive framework based on Church-Turing computability and non-classical approaches based on analog processing in dynamical systems. We conclude that the dynamical neurobiological analogue of the finite-state architecture appears to be relevant, at least at an implementational level, for cognitive brain systems. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
494	dynamical	2002	Tabor, W	The value of symbolic computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Standard generative linguistic theory, which uses discrete symbolic models of cognition, has some strengths and weaknesses. It is strong on providing a network of outposts that make scientific travel in the jungles of natural language feasible. It is weak in that it currently depends on the elaborate and unformalized use of intuition to develop critical supporting assumptions about each data point. In this regard, it is not in a position to characterize natural language systems in the lawful terms that ecological psychologists strive for. Connectionist learning models offer some help: They define lawful relations between linguistic environments and language systems. But our understanding of them is currently weak, especially when it comes to natural language syntax. Fortunately, symbolic linguistic analysis can help connectionism if the two meet via dynamical systems theory. I discuss a case in point: Insights from linguistic explorations of natural language syntax appear to have identified information structures that are particularly relevant to understanding ecologically appealing but analytically mysterious connectionist learning models.
495	dynamical	2015	Walton, AE; Richardson, MJ; Langland-Hassan, P; Chemero, A	Improvisation and the self-organization of multiple musical bodies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Understanding everyday behavior relies heavily upon understanding our ability to improvise, how we are able to continuously anticipate and adapt in order to coordinate with our environment and others. Here we consider the ability of musicians to improvise, where they must spontaneously coordinate their actions with co-performers in order to produce novel musical expressions. Investigations of this behavior have traditionally focused on describing the organization of cognitive structures. The focus, here, however, is on the ability of the time-evolving patterns of inter-musician movement coordination as revealed by the mathematical tools of complex dynamical systems to provide a new understanding of what potentiates the novelty of spontaneous musical action. We demonstrate this approach through the application of cross wavelet spectral analysis, which isolates the strength and patterning of the behavioral coordination that occurs between improvising musicians across a range of nested time-scales. Revealing the sophistication of the previously unexplored dynamics of movement coordination between improvising musicians is an important step toward understanding how creative musical expressions emerge from the spontaneous coordination of multiple musical bodies.
496	dynamical	2013	Kozma, R; Puljic, M	Hierarchical random cellular neural networks for system-level brain-like signal processing	NEURAL NETWORKS	Sensory information processing and cognition in brains are modeled using dynamic systems theory. The brain's dynamic state is described by a trajectory evolving in a high-dimensional state space. We introduce a hierarchy of random cellular automata as the mathematical tools to describe the spatio-temporal dynamics of the cortex. The corresponding brain model is called neuropercolation which has distinct advantages compared to traditional models using differential equations, especially in describing spatio-temporal discontinuities in the form of phase transitions. Phase transitions demarcate singularities in brain operations at critical conditions, which are viewed as hallmarks of higher cognition and awareness experience. The introduced Monte-Carlo simulations obtained by parallel computing point to the importance of computer implementations using very large-scale integration (VLSI) and analog platforms. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
497	dynamical	2013	Tylen, K; Fusaroli, R; Bundgaard, PF; Ostergaard, S	Making sense together: A dynamical account of linguistic meaning-making	SEMIOTICA	How is linguistic communication possible? How do we come to share the same meanings of words and utterances? One classical position holds that human beings share a transcendental "platonic" ideality independent of individual cognition and language use (Frege 1948). Another stresses immanent linguistic relations (Saussure 1959), and yet another basic embodied structures as the ground for invariant aspects of meaning (Lakoff and Johnson 1999). Here we propose an alternative account in which the possibility for sharing meaning is motivated by four sources of structural stability: 1) the physical constraints and affordances of our surrounding material environment, 2) biological constraints of our human bodies, 3) social normative constraints of culture and society, and 4) the local history of social interactions. These structures and constraints interact in dynamical ways in actual language usage situations: local dialogical and - social dynamics motivate and stabilize the profiling of a conceptual space already - highly structured by our shared biology, culture, and environment. We will substantiate this perspective with reference to recent studies in experimental pragmatics and semiotics in which participants interact linguistically to solve cooperative tasks. Three main cases will be considered: The dynamic grounding of linguistic categories, the construction of conceptual models to relate entities in a scene, and the construction of shared conceptual scales for assessing and appraising subjective experiences.
498	dynamical	2012	Kirchhoff, MD	Extended cognition and fixed properties: steps to a third-wave version of extended cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This paper explores several paths a distinctive third wave of extended cognition might take. In so doing, I address a couple of shortcomings of first- and second-wave extended cognition associated with a tendency to conceive of the properties of internal and external processes as fixed and non-interchangeable. First, in the domain of cognitive transformation, I argue that a problematic tendency of the complementarity model is that it presupposes that socio-cultural resources augment but do not significantly transform the brain's representational capacities during diachronic development. In this paper I show that there is available a much more dynamical explanation-one taking the processes of the brain's enculturation into patterned practices as transforming the brain's representational capacities. Second, in the domain of cognitive assembly, I argue that another problematic tendency is an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, since it overlooks the active contribution of socio-cultural practices in the assembly process of extended cognitive systems. In contrast to an individualistic notion of cognitive agency, I explore the idea that it is possible to decentralize cognitive agency to include socio-cultural practices.
499	dynamical	2010	Large, EW	A Dynamical Systems Approach to Musical Tonality	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	Music is a form of communication that relies on highly structured temporal sequences comparable in complexity to language. Music is found among all human cultures, and musical languages vary across cultures with learning. Tonality a set of stability and attraction relationships perceived among musical frequencies is a universal feature of music, found in virtually every musical culture. In this chapter, a new theory of central auditory processing and development is proposed, and its implications for tonal cognition and perception are explored. A simple model is put forward, based on knowledge of auditory organization and general neurodynamic principles. The model is simplified as compared to the organization and dynamics of the real auditory system, nevertheless it makes realistic predictions about neurodynamics. The analysis predicts the existence of natural resonances, the potential for tonal language learning, the perceptual categorization of intervals, and most importantly, relative stability and attraction relationships among musical tones. This approach suggests that high-level music cognition and perception may arise from the interaction of acoustic signals with the dynamics of the auditory system. Musical universals are predicted by intrinsic neurodynamics that provide a direct link to neurophysiology, and Hebbian synaptic modification could explain how different tonal languages are established.
500	dynamical	1998	Beer, RD	Framing the debate between computational and dynamical approaches to cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	van Gelder argues that computational and dynamical systems are mathematically distinct kinds of systems. Although there are real experimental and theoretical differences between adopting a computational or dynamical perspective on cognition, and the dynamical approach has much to recommend it, the debate cannot be framed this rigorously. Instead, what is needed is careful study of concrete models to improve our intuitions.
501	ecological	1998	Greeno, JG	The situativity of knowing, learning, and research	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	The situative perspective shifts the focus of analysis from individual behavior and cognition to larger systems that include behaving cognitive agents interacting with each other and with other subsystems in the environment, The first section presents a version of the situative perspective that draws on studies of social interaction, philosophical situation theory, and ecological psychology. Framing assumptions and concepts are proposed for a synthesis of the situative and cognitive theoretical perspectives, and a further situative synthesis is suggested that would draw on dynamic-systems theory. The second section discusses relations between the situative, cognitive, and behaviorist theoretical perspectives and principles of educational practice, The third section discusses an approach to research and social practice called interactive research and design, which fits with the situative perspective and provides a productive, albeit syncretic, combination of theory-oriented and instrumental functions of research.
502	ecological	1997	Chiel, HJ; Beer, RD	The brain has a body: adaptive behavior emerges from interactions of nervous system, body and environment	TRENDS IN NEUROSCIENCES	Studies of mechanisms of adaptive behavior generally focus on neurons and circuits. But adaptive behavior also depends on interactions among the nervous system, body and environment: sensory preprocessing and motor post-processing filter inputs to and outputs from the nervous system; co-evolution and co-development of nervous system and periphery create matching and complementarity between them; body structure creates constraints and opportunities for neural control; and continuous feedback between nervous system, body and environment are essential for normal behavior. This broader view of adaptive behavior has been a major underpinning of ecological psychology and has influenced behavior-based robotics. Computational neuroethology, which jointly models neural control and periphery of animals, is a promising methodology for understanding adaptive behavior.
503	ecological	1994	GREENO, JG	GIBSONS AFFORDANCES	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Gibson developed an interactionist view of perception and action that focused on information that is available in the environment. He thereby rejected the still-prevalent framing assumption of factoring external-physical and internal-mental processes. The interactionist alternative, which focuses on processes of agent-situation interactions, is taken in ecological psychology as well as in recent research on conversational communication, research on complex, socially organized activity, and philosophical situation theory. The concepts of affordance and ability are key ideas in an interactionist account. In situation theory, abilities in activity depend on attunements to constraints, and affordances for an agent can be understood as conditions in the environment for constraints to which the agent is attuned. This broad view of affordances includes affordances that are recognized as well as affordances that are perceived directly.
504	ecological	2006	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Hristovski, R	The ecological dynamics of decision making in sport	PSYCHOLOGY OF SPORT AND EXERCISE	Objectives: The aim of this position paper is to consider the decision-making process as an integral part of goal-directed behaviour influenced by functional constraints at the scale of the environment-athlete relationship. To achieve this aim we discuss relevant theoretical ideas from ecological psychology, focusing particularly on ecological dynamics, as a contrast to more traditional perspectives on decision-making behaviour. To support the argumentation we briefly describe some recent empirical data from studies of sports that emphasise this alternative. perspective on decision making. We conclude that traditional approaches analyse decisions as if they were not grounded, i.e., expressed behaviourally through actions in performance contexts. It is argued that an ecological approach should analyse affordances or action possibilities, when studying cognition in sport, demanding an integration of theories and ideas from the natural sciences in order to understand concepts like information and intentionality. Conclusion: Decision-making behaviour is best considered at the level of the performer-environment relationship and viewed as emerging from the interactions of individuals with environmental constraints over time towards specific functional goals. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
505	ecological	2009	Fajen, BR; Riley, MA; Turvey, MT	Information, affordances, and the control of action in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The theory of affordances, a conceptual pillar of the ecological approach to perception and action, has The potential to become a guiding principle for research on perception and action in sport. Affordances are opportunities for action. They describe the environment in terms of behaviors that are possible at a given moment tinder a given set of conditions. Affordances capture the tight coupling between perception and action, and allow for The prospective and moment-to-moment control of activity that is characteristic of fluent, fast-paced behavior on the playing field. We begin with an overview of the ecological approach and the principle of direct perception, using past research on interceptive action to illustrate how this principle has been put to work to capture information-movement relations in perceptual-motor skill. We then review theory and research on body-scaled, action-scaled, and social affordances, highlighting outstanding questions that provide opportunities for new research on affordances in the context of sport. We conclude with consideration of affordances as providing a functional semantics for sports.
506	ecological	2007	Becker, DV; Kenrick, DT; Neuberg, SL; Blackwell, KC; Smith, DM	The confounded nature of angry men and happy women	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Findings of 7 studies suggested that decisions about the sex of a face and the emotional expressions of anger or happiness are not independent: Participants were faster and more accurate at detecting angry expressions on mate faces and at detecting happy expressions on female faces. These findings were robust across different stimulus sets and judgment tasks and indicated bottom-up perceptual processes rather than just top-down conceptually driven ones. Results from additional studies in which neutrally expressive faces were used suggested that the connections between masculine features and angry expressions and between feminine features and happy expressions might be a property of the sexual dimorphism of the face itself and not merely a result of gender stereotypes biasing the perception.
507	ecological	2002	Barab, SA; Plucker, JA	Smart people or smart contexts? Cognition, ability, and talent development in an age of situated approaches to knowing and learning	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	Intelligence, expertise, ability and talent, as these terms have traditionally been used in education and psychology, are socially agreed upon labels that minimize the dynamic, evolving, and contextual nature of individual-environment relations. These hypothesized constructs can instead be described as functional relations distributed across whole persons and particular contexts through which individuals appear knowledgeably skillful. The purpose of this article is to support a concept of ability and talent development that is theoretically grounded in 5 distinct, yet interrelated, notions: ecological psychology, situated cognition, distributed cognition, activity theory, and legitimate peripheral participation. Although talent may be reserved by some to describe individuals possessing exceptional ability and ability may be described as an internal trait, in our description neither ability nor talent are possessed. Instead, they are treated as equivalent terms that can be used to describe functional transactions that are situated across person-in-situation. Further, and more important, by arguing that ability is part of the individual-environment transaction, we take the potential to appear talented out of the hands (or heads) of the few and instead treat it as an opportunity that is available to all although it may be actualized more frequently by some.
508	ecological	1995	COSTALL, A	SOCIAL AFFORDANCES	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Modern disciplines both reflect and perpetuate a basic dualism. The natural sciences deal with a 'material world', abstracted from human concerns, while the social sciences have, in their turn, constructed a world of 'agents' disconnected from material things. James Gibson's theory of affordances was an attempt to counter this deep schism in modern thought by emphasizing the material conditions of human activity. He came to see that psychology, as traditionally conceived, was itself a creation of dualistic thinking. Yet, Gibson failed to engage in a corresponding exploration of the sociality of the material. This paper examines the reasons why Gibson retained a dualism of the natural and socio-cultural in his theory; points to some of the ways in which the concept of affordances should be socialized; and, finally, raises the question: what would ecological psychology stand to lose if all affordances were social?
509	ecological	1998	Zahorik, P; Jenison, RL	Presence as being-in-the-world	PRESENCE-TELEOPERATORS AND VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS	An alternative view of presence is introduced based on existential philosophy and ecological psychology. This view favors a Heideggerian/Gibsonian metaphysic over the more conventional rationalistic orientation, In this alternative view, notions of subjective presence and objective Presence no longer exist, Presence is instead tied to one's successfully supported action in the environment, this environment being either virtual or real. The coupling between perception and action is crucial for determining the extent to which actions are successfully supported. It is argued that this alternative view provides needed guidance and simplification for the evaluation of presence.
510	ecological	2006	Marsh, KL; Richardson, MJ; Baron, RM; Schmidt, RC	Contrasting approaches to perceiving and acting with others	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	How and why the presence of a person directly affects the perception and action of another person is a phenomenon that has been approached in a limited and piecemeal fashion within psychology. This kind of diffuse strategy has failed to capture the jointness of perception and action within and between people. In contradistinction, the authors offer a perspective that retains both integrally social features (e.g., involves interaction) and yet adequately exploits the current state of knowledge regarding the ecological properties of perception-action, while at the same time drawing on aspects of dynamic systems theory. In this article the authors review the best attempts to examine how one individual affects another's perceptions and actions in the emergence of a social unit of action. Two important approaches, the individual-level and cognitive dynamics approaches, have yielded insights that derive in significant degree from principles of ecological psychology and/or dynamical systems theory. Prototypic of the individual-level approach is a focus on what can be perceived by coactors with the aim of uncovering how the dispositional qualities (affordances) of another person are informationally specified during social interaction. In contrast, the cognitive dynamics approach simulates dynamical characteristics of cognition and psychological influence with the aim of uncovering how cooperative interaction emerges out of its component parts. The authors argue that these approaches involve, respectively, insufficient mutuality and insufficient embodiment. Consequently, a social synergy perspective is discussed that approaches the problem of socially cooperative interaction at the relational, nonreductive level, using novel methods to examine how social perception and action emerge through self-organizing processes.
511	ecological	2008	Markus, ML; Silver, MS	A Foundation for the Study of IT Effects: A New Look at DeSanctis and Poole's Concepts of Structural Features and Spirit	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	Journal the Association for Information Systems Gerardine DeSanctis and Marshall Scott Poole made an important contribution to the study of IT uses and effects with their insightful concepts of "structural features" and "spirit." Unlike their concept of "appropriation," which has found broad acceptance in the IS community, the concepts of structural features and spirit have not been widely used. Published concerns that the concepts are not consistent with basic assumptions in Giddens' structuration theory, on which the concepts were based, could account for their neglect. However, concepts like structural features and spirit are indispensable for any program of research that attempts to show how IT artifacts can, together with other influences, contribute to the consequences of IT use. Addressing the criticisms that have been leveled against these concepts is, therefore, important. In this paper we unpack DeSanctis and Poole's concepts and propose redefining them as three new concepts: technical objects, functional affordances, and symbolic expressions. We believe this reconceptualization addresses several concerns about the original concepts, while retaining the core insights of DeSanctis and Poole's innovative analysis.
512	ecological	1998	Taga, G	A model of the neuro-musculo-skeletal system for anticipatory adjustment of human locomotion during obstacle avoidance	BIOLOGICAL CYBERNETICS	Theoretical studies on human locomotion have shown that a stable and flexible gait emerges from the dynamic interaction between the rhythmic activity of a neural system composed of a neural rhythm generator (RG) and the rhythmic movement of the musculo-skeletal system. This study further explores the mechanism of the anticipatory control of locomotion based on the emergent properties of a neural system that generates the basic pattern of gait. A model of the neuro-musculo-skeletal system to execute the task of stepping over a visible obstacle with both limbs during walking is described. The RG in the neural system was combined with a system referred to as a discrete movement generator (DM), which receives both the output of the RG and visual information regarding the obstacle and generates discrete signals for modification of the basic gait pattern. A series of computer simulations demonstrated that an obstacle placed at an arbitrary position can be cleared by sequential modifications of gait: (1) modulating the step length when approaching the obstacle and (2) modifying the trajectory of the swing limbs while stepping over it. This result suggests that anticipatory adjustments are produced not by the unidirectional flow of the information from visual signals to motor commands but by the bi-directional circulation of information between the DM and the RG. The validity of this model is discussed in relation to motor cortical activity during anticipatory modifications in cats and the ecological psychology of visuo-motor control in humans.
513	ecological	1998	Thelen, E; Spencer, JP	Postural control during reaching in young infants: A dynamic systems approach	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	We conceptualize the coordinated development of posture and reaching within Schoner's (Ecological Psychology, 7:291-314, 1995) dynamic model of coupled levels of control: load, timing, and goal. In particular, the goal of postural stability must be maintained during a reach. Using longitudinal data from four infants followed from 3 weeks to 1 year, we show that coordination of the head with upper and lower arm activity is critical for successful reaching. First, infants acquire stable head control several weeks before reaching onset. Furthermore, reaching onset is characterized by a reorganization of muscle patterns to include more trapezius and deltoid activity, serving to stabilize the head and shoulder and provide a stable base from which to reach. We argue that initially, the system is working on postural stability and reaching as goals. Infants secondarily select appropriate muscle patterns to achieve those goals depending, in part, on their individual body sizes, body proportions and energy levels. Motor development proceeds as a continual dialogue between the nervous system, body, and environment. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
514	ecological	1995	Schoner, G	Recent developments and problems in human movement science and their conceptual implications	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Behavioral, neurophysiological, and theoretical lines of research are briefly reviewed, opening to scrutiny a number of conceptual questions: What does it mean that the central nervous system controls a variable? In which sense can the central nervous system be said to use particular coordinate systems? What do we mean when we talk about levels of nervous control of movement? What are dimensions of behavior? Are planning and execution separate domains of movement science? To exemplify these issues, trajectory formation is discussed as a model system, around which answers to these problems can be attempted. The theoretical language used in chat attempt is that of the dynamic approach to understanding coordination. The role of ecological psychology in a renewed effort to arrive at a unified, here dynamic, account of action is discussed.
515	ecological	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
516	ecological	1994	CAIRD, JK; HANCOCK, PA	THE PERCEPTION OF ARRIVAL TIME FOR DIFFERENT ONCOMING VEHICLES AT AN INTERSECTION	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We make an appeal to bring the theoretical tools of ecological psychology to focus on road-traffic accidents that result from making left turns. Following a review of previous arrival-time literature, we report an experiment that was conducted in a fixed-base driving simulator to determine the perceptual basis for judgments to turn left. We manipulated the arrival time (T(a)) of an oncoming vehicle, the viewing distance to that vehicle, and the type of oncoming vehicle. Forty-eight participants were randomly assigned to a group in which a motorcycle, a compact car, a full-size car, or a delivery truck represented the oncoming vehicle. There were equal numbers of male and female participants in the four groups. As T(a) was increased, underestimation of vehicle T(a) also increased. Significant main effects were found for T(a), gender of participants, vehicle type, and viewing distance; significant effects were also found for interactions for gender by T(a) and gender by vehicle type. Men and women differed in their accuracy of judgments for vehicle types; men were more accurate in estimating the arrival of delivery vans and motorcycles than women. The accuracy of T(a) estimation for the type of the approach vehicle and distance removed suggests that participants used vehicle-size information in their judgments. We present a discussion of a number of ''disappearance methodological issues and research applications.
517	ecological	2007	Araujo, D; Davids, K; Passos, P	Ecological validity, representative design, and correspondence between experimental task constraints and behavioral setting: Comment on Rogers, Kadar, and Costall (2005)	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Using the term ecological validity, in a recent issue of Ecological Psychology, Rogers, Kadar, and Costall (2005) discussed how the simulator they used could provide data by replicating natural road driving behaviors. However, ecological validity, as Brunswik (1956) conceived it, refers to the validity of a cue (i.e., perceptual variable) in predicting a criterion state of the environment. Like other psychologists in the past, Rogers et al. (2005) confused this term with another of Brunswik's terms: representative design. In this comment, the authors clarify the distinction between these concepts and also discuss how Gibsonian ideas can strengthen understanding of the correspondence between experimental task constraints and behavioral settings outside the laboratory. The main implication of this theoretical rationalization is for the development of a measurable correspondence between experimental and behavioral contexts, enabling defensible generalization to both organisms and environments beyond the bounds of particular experiments.
518	ecological	2011	Becker, DV; Anderson, US; Mortensen, CR; Neufeld, SL; Neel, R	The Face in the Crowd Effect Unconfounded: Happy Faces, Not Angry Faces, Are More Efficiently Detected in Single- and Multiple-Target Visual Search Tasks	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Is it easier to detect angry or happy facial expressions in crowds of faces? The present studies used several variations of the visual search task to assess whether people selectively attend to expressive faces. Contrary to widely cited studies (e. g., Ohman, Lundqvist, & Esteves, 2001) that suggest angry faces "pop out" of crowds, our review of the literature found inconsistent evidence for the effect and suggested that low-level visual confounds could not be ruled out as the driving force behind the anger superiority effect. We then conducted 7 experiments, carefully designed to eliminate many of the confounding variables present in past demonstrations. These experiments showed no evidence that angry faces popped out of crowds or even that they were efficiently detected. These experiments instead revealed a search asymmetry favoring happy faces. Moreover, in contrast to most previous studies, the happiness superiority effect was shown to be robust even when obvious perceptual confounds-like the contrast of white exposed teeth that are typically displayed in smiling faces-were eliminated in the happy targets. Rather than attribute this effect to the existence of innate happiness detectors, we speculate that the human expression of happiness has evolved to be more visually discriminable because its communicative intent is less ambiguous than other facial expressions.
519	ecological	2006	Davids, K; Button, C; Araujo, D; Renshaw, I; Hristovski, R	Movement models from sports provide representative task constraints for studying adaptive behavior in human movement systems	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Researchers studying adaptive behavior in human movement systems have traditionally employed simplified, laboratory-based movement models in an effort to conserve experimental rigor. Brunswikian psychology raises questions over the representativeness of many of these popular experimental models for studying how movements are coordinated with events, objects, and surfaces of dynamic environments. In this article we argue that sports provide rich ecological constraints for representative task design in modeling the complex interactions of human performers with their environments. Adopting a functionalist perspective enriched by ideas from ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics, we consider data from exemplar movement models in basketball and boxing to support this contention. We show that this preference for movement models from sports, although not completely novel, has accelerated over recent years, mainly due to the theoretical re-emphasis on studying the interaction of individual and task constraints. The implications of using such applied models of movement behavior in studying the design of natural and artificial systems are also discussed.
520	ecological	2012	Withagen, R; de Poel, HJ; Araujo, D; Pepping, GJ	Affordances can invite behavior: Reconsidering the relationship between affordances and agency	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of agency has been central to ecological approaches to psychology. Gibson, one of the founders of this movement, made room for this concept by arguing against the mechanistic conceptions in psychology. In his view, the environment is not a collection of causes that pushes the animal around, but consist of action possibilities, which he coined affordances. In making their way in the world, animals regulate their behavior with respect to these possibilities. Reed later developed this ecological conception of agency, following Gibson in conceiving of affordances as action possibilities. However, drawing upon industrial design, architecture, and phenomenology, we argue that affordances are not mere action possibilities but that they can also invite behavior. We suggest a mutualist perspective on invitations, suggesting that they depend on the animal-environment relationship in multiple dimensions. The implications of this new conception of affordances for the ecological account of agency are explored. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
521	ecological	2000	Michaels, CF	Information, perception, and action: What should ecological psychologists learn from Milner and Goodale (1995)?	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Two issues motivated the reassessment of a core concept of ecological psychology: the relation between perception and action. The first was Milner and Goodale's (1995) claim, based on neurological and behavioral evidence, that vision for perception is distinct from vision for action. The second was the apparent involvement of lower order, nonspecific optical variables in the control of action as reported by Michaels, Zeinstra, and Oudejans (in press). Perception in the usual ecological sense of the detection of information is obviously needed for action; however, to the extent that perception is defined in terms of explicit knowledge or awareness of environmental properties, including animal-referential ones, a separation was deemed justified. Perception, so construed, together with the ventral stream, was suggested to be about telling rather than acting.
522	ecological	2003	Scarantino, A	Affordances explained	PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	I examine the central theoretical construct of ecological psychology, the concept of an affordance. In the first part of the paper, I illustrate the role affordances play in Gibson's theory of perception. In the second part, I argue that affordances are to be understood as dispositional properties, and explain what I take to be their characteristic background circumstances, triggering circumstances and manifestations. The main purpose of my analysis is to give affordances a theoretical identity enriched by Gibson's visionary insight, but independent of the most controversial claims of the Gibsonian movement.
523	ecological	1995	Michaels, C; Beek, P	The state of ecological psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In this article we discuss the state of ecological psychology, broadly defined as the branch of science dealing with the coordination of activity with respect to perceptual information. Three theoretical approaches to this theme are distinguished: direct perception, kinetic theory, and pattern dynamics. After a brief summary of these approaches, we critically review their merits and limitations with regard to four problem areas, namely, the identification of the essential variables of perception and action, the empirical testing of models and hypotheses concerning these variables, the theoretical and methodological response to the variability of perception and action, and the theoretical and methodological response to lasting changes in perception and action during learning and development. A plea is made for the identification of multiple alternative variables for a specific problem, the rigorous construction and empirical testing of models in which these alternatives are considered, and the development of new theoretical constructs and model constructs to deal with the variability of perception and action as well as the changes that accompany learning and development.
524	ecological	2003	Jones, KS	What is an affordance?	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	What should and should not be considered an affordance is still an open issue. At the 2002 North American meeting of the International Society for Ecological Psychology, a symposium was held concerning this topic. The articles in this special issue are expanded versions of the papers presented at that symposium. To set the stage for those discussions, this article presents an analysis of the evolution of J. J. Gibson's thinking on this issue, from some of his earliest writings (i.e., J. J. Gibson & Crooks, 1938) through his most recent writings (i.e., J. J. Gibson, 1979/1986). It is hoped that this forum will stimulate thinking concerning this important ecological concept.
525	ecological	1993	BERRY, DS; WERO, JLF	ACCURACY IN FACE PERCEPTION - A VIEW FROM ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY	It is well documented that people form reliable and robust impressions of a stranger's personality traits on the basis of facial appearance. The propensity to judge character from the face is typically thought to reflect cultural beliefs about mythical relations between aspects of facial appearance and personality. However, recent cross-cultural and developmental research does not support the mythical, cultural stereotype hypothesis. An alternative explanation of the data is that consensus in face-based impressions exists because those judgments are partially accurate. In this article, we explore the theoretical rationale for this ''kernel-of-truth'' hypothesis, review research that indicates that first impressions based on facial appearance are partially accurate, and discuss the potential mechanisms that may yield links between aspects of facial appearance and personality.
526	ecological	2009	Araujo, D; Davids, K	Ecological approaches to cognition and action in sport and exercise: Ask not only what you do, but where you do it	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In recent decades, concepts and ideas from James J. Gibson's theory of direct perception in ecological psychology have been applied to the study of how perception and action regulate sport performance. This article examines the influence of different streams of thought in ecological psychology for studying cognition and action in The diverse behavioural contexts of sport and exercise. In discussing the origins of ecological psychology, it can be concluded that psychologists Such as Lewin, and to some extent Heider, provided the initial impetus for the development of key ideas. We argue that The papers in this special issue clarify, that the different schools of thinking in ecological psychology have much to contribute to theoretical and practical developments in sport and exercise psychology For example, Gibson emphasized and formalized how the individual is coupled with the environment, Brunswik raised the issue of the ontology of probability in human behaviour and the problem of representative design for experimental task constraints; Barker looked carefully into extra-individual behavioural contexts and Bronfenbrenner presented insights pertinent to the relations between behaviour contexts, and macro influences on behaviour In this overview, we highlight essential issues from the main schools of thought of relevance to the contexts of sport and exercise, and we consider some potential theoretical linkages with dynamical systems theory.
527	ecological	2000	Saltzman, E; Byrd, D	Task-dynamics of gestural timing: Phase windows and multifrequency rhythms	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In this paper, we explore the hypothesis that intergestural phasing relations are implemented via coupling terms in a nonlinear dynamical systems model. Specifically. we describe recent computational developments of the task-dynamic model of gestural patterning (e.g., E. Saltzman, J. A. S. Kelso, Psychological Review 94 (1987) 84-106; E. Saltzman, K. G. Munhall, Ecological Psychology 1 (1989) 333-382) that are focused on modeling the timing of rhythmic action units. First, we explore the possibility of attractor states for intergestural phasing that are characterized as ranges or phase windows (D. Byrd, Phonology 13 (1996) 139-169), and contrast this behavior with standard models that display punctate relative phasing. It is argued that the phase window approach can provide flexible control of the relative timing of articulatory gestures, allowing constrained variability in intergestural timing as a function of linguistic and para-linguistic factors. Second, we discuss how this extension of the task-dynamic model has been adapted for modeling the production of multifrequency rhythms (speech or bimanual). This work explores the control of the frequency- and phase-locking characteristics of coupled limit cycle oscillators by examining how desired frequency ratio, intrinsic frequency detuning, and coupling asymmetries interact in creating observed rhythmic patterns. Using this method, details of the resultant transient and steady-state trajectories of phase and amplitude are generated that are not available using models derived with averaging techniques. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
528	ecological	1996	Sundstrom, E; Bell, PA; Busby, PL; Asmus, C	Environmental psychology 1989-1994	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	A review of research and theory on transactions between people and physical environments emphasizes new contributions to theory and empirical research published in major journals of environmental psychology, 1989-1994. Theories focused on arousal, load, stress, privacy-regulation, behavior settings, and transactional analysis; new theory increasingly incorporated situational and contextual variables. Empirical research emphasized field settings over the laboratory and employed increasingly diverse methods, populations, and cultures. Environmental design studies integrated scientific and applied goals through post-occupancy evaluation. New findings concerned features of residences, work places, hospitals, schools, prisons, and larger community environments. New studies also addressed environmental stressors (e.g. temperature, noise); effects of attitudes and behaviors on conservation, crime, pollution, and hazards; and issues for neighborhoods, public places, and natural environments. Directions for the future include integrated theory to guide research, more design experiments, and development of conventions for case studies.
529	ecological	1983	SHOTTER, J	DUALITY OF STRUCTURE AND INTENTIONALITY IN AN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL FOR THE THEORY OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR	0
530	ecological	2004	Djajadiningrat, T; Wensveen, S; Frens, J; Overbeeke, K	Tangible products: redressing the balance between appearance and action	PERSONAL AND UBIQUITOUS COMPUTING	Over the past decade, our group has approached interaction design from an industrial design point of view. In doing so, we focus on a branch of design called "formgiving''(1). Traditionally, formgiving has been concerned with such aspects of objects as form, colour, texture and material. In the context of interaction design, we have come to see formgiving as the way in which objects appeal to our senses and motor skills. In this paper, we first describe our approach to interaction design of electronic products. We start with how we have been first inspired and then disappointed by the Gibsonian perception movement [1], how we have come to see both appearance and actions as carriers of meaning, and how we see usability and aesthetics as inextricably linked. We then show a number of interaction concepts for consumer electronics with both our initial thinking and what we learnt from them. Finally, we discuss the relevance of all this for tangible interaction. We argue that, in addition to a data-centred view, it is also possible to take a perceptual-motor-centred view on tangible interaction. In this view, it is the rich opportunities for differentiation in appearance and action possibilities that make physical objects open up new avenues to meaning and aesthetics in interaction design.
531	ecological	2002	Chawla, L; Heft, H	Children's competence and the ecology of communities: A functional approach to the evaluation of participation	JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Initiatives to involve children and adolescents in assessing, planning and managing their local environments are increasing around the world. How these initiatives are to be evaluated, however, has only begun to be discussed. A particular theoretical challenge to be faced is formulating an approach that has broad cross-cultural applicability while also remaining sensitive to the considerable sociocultural differences that exist. The development of competence, that is, the capacity to exercise control over valued spheres of life, is identified as a quality that characterizes psychological well-being universally, even as its specific expression is formed variously in different contexts. Drawing on concepts from ecological psychology, we consider qualities of environments that, are likely to support the development of competence and discuss how these concepts can inform efforts to evaluate children's participation in communities. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.
532	ecological	1992	WILLIAMS, AM; DAVIDS, K; BURWITZ, L; WILLIAMS, JG	PERCEPTION AND ACTION IN SPORT	JOURNAL OF HUMAN MOVEMENT STUDIES	The current debate on the relationship between perception and action has aroused considerable interest within the movement sciences. Contemporary developments in ecological psychology have raised significant questions over the process-oriented focus of cognitive psychology, advocating a shift in the methodological approach to studying movement behaviour. A major issue concerns the perceived artificiality of many laboratory-bound cognitive research paradigms. In reaction to this there has been an increased emphasis on sport-related research on perception-action coupling within more ecologically valid settings. This paper provides a critical review of existing work on perception and action in sport-related tasks. It is argued that, since sport movements represent a potentially fruitful body of actions with which to meaningfully examine this relationship, sport science can make a fundamental contribution to this ongoing debate.
533	ecological	2008	Passos, P; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R	Manipulating Constraints to Train Decision Making in Rugby Union	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING	This paper focuses on the paradoxical relationship between game unpredictability and the certainty of players' actions in team ball sports. Our research on this relationship leads us to suggest a method for training decision making, which we exemplify in the team sport of Rugby Union. The training methodology is based on application of theoretical insights from Ecological Psychology, Complex Dynamical Systems and the Constraints-Led Approach. The paper starts with a critical overview of traditional approaches to studying decision making in sport. Next we describe the sport of Rugby Union to exemplify a complex dynamical system, and explain how that conceptualisation captures the interactions of players within that performance context. We conclude our analysis by describing how to manipulate task constraints to improve decision-making performance, as players search for an appropriate blend of stability and variability in their actions. In the final part of the paper, we suggest some methods to train decision making based on four stages: i) identifying the problem; ii) setting out a strategy to solve it; iii) creating an action model; and iv) building a decision-making exercise. The main conclusion from our work for coaches and sports scientists is that decision making should be improved through training methods that provide an accurate balance between stability of actions, which gives structure to the players' performance, and variability, which allows them to cope with the uncertainty of situational constraints, such as the behaviour of specific opponents.
534	ecological	2013	Volkoff, O; Strong, DM	CRITICAL REALISM AND AFFORDANCES: THEORIZING IT-ASSOCIATED ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE PROCESSES	MIS QUARTERLY	Convincing arguments for using critical realism as an underpinning for theories of IT-associated organizational change have appeared in the Information Systems literature. A central task in developing such theories is to uncover the generative mechanisms by which IT is implicated in organizational change processes, but to do so, we must explain how critical realism's concept of generative mechanisms applies in an IS context. Similarly, convincing arguments have been made for using Gibson's (1986) affordance theory from ecological psychology for developing theories of IT-associated organizational change, but this effort has been hampered due to insufficient attention to the ontological status of affordances. In this paper, we argue that affordances are the generative mechanisms we need to specify and explain how affordances are a specific type of generative mechanism. We use the core principles of critical realism to argue how affordances arise in the real domain from the relation between the complex assemblages of organizations and of IT artifacts, how affordances are actualized over time by organizational actors, and how these actualizations lead to the various effects we observe in the empirical domain. After presenting these arguments, we reanalyze two published cases in the literature, those of ACRO and Autoworks, to illustrate how affordance-based theories informed by critical realism enhance our ability to explain IT-associated organizational change. These examples show how researchers using this approach should proceed, and how managers can use these ideas to diagnose and address IT implementation problems.
535	ecological	2011	Chow, JY; Davids, K; Hristovski, R; Araujo, D; Passos, P	Nonlinear pedagogy: Learning design for self-organizing neurobiological systems	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, key concepts in ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics exemplify how learning design can be shaped by ideas of self-organization, meta-stability and self-organized criticality in complex neurobiological systems. Through interactions with specific ecological constraints in learning environments, cognition, decision making and action emerge. An important design strategy is the use of different types of noise to channel the learning process into meta-stable regions of the "learner-learning environment" system to encourage adaptive behaviors. Here learners can be exposed to many functional and creative performance solutions during training. Data from studies in the performance context of sports are used to illustrate how these theoretical ideas can underpin learning design. Based on these insights a nonlinear pedagogy is proposed in which the role of coaches or trainers alters from a more traditional, prescriptive stance to the mode of manipulating key interacting task constraints including information, space and equipment to facilitate learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
536	ecological	2009	Zheng, DP; Young, MF; Wagner, MM; Brewer, RA	Negotiation for Action: English Language Learning in Game-Based Virtual Worlds	MODERN LANGUAGE JOURNAL	This study analyzes the user chat logs and other artifacts of a virtual world, Quest Atlantis (QA), and proposes the concept of Negotiation for Action (NfA) to explain how interaction, specifically, avatar-embodied collaboration between native English speakers and nonnative English speakers, provided resources for English language acquisition. Iterative multilayered analyses revealed several affordances of QA for language acquisition at both utterance and discourse levels. Through intercultural collaboration on solving content-based problems, participants successfully reached quest goals during which emergent identity formation and meaning making take place. The study also demonstrates that it is in this intercultural interaction that pragmatics, syntax, semantics, and discourse practices arose and were enacted. The findings are consistent with our ecological psychology framework, in that meaning emerges when language is used to coordinate in-the-moment actions.
537	ecological	1998	Duchon, AP; Warren, WH; Kaelbling, LP	Ecological robotics	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	There are striking parallels between ecological psychology and the new trends in robotics and computer vision, particularly regarding how agents interact with the environment. We present some ideas from ecological psychology, including control laws using optic flow, affordances, and action modes, and describe our implementation of these concepts in two mobile robots that can avoid obstacles and chase or flee moving targets solely by using optic flow. The properties of these methods were explored further in simulation. This work ties in with that of others who argue for a methodological approach in robotics that forgoes a central model or planner. Not only might ecological psychology contribute to robotics, but robotic implementations might, in turn, provide a test bed for ecological principles and a source of ideas that could be tested in animals and humans.
538	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH	Good prospects: ecological and social perspectives on conforming, creating, and caring in conversation	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Ecological approaches (e.g. [Gibson, J.J., 1979. The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston]) to psychology and language are selectively reviewed, focusing on social learning. Is social learning (e.g., acquiring language) a matter of conformity [Tomasello, M., 2006. Acquiring linguistic constructions. In: D. Kuhn, R.S. Siegler, W. Damon, R.M. Lerner (Eds.), Handbook of Child Psychology, Cognition, Perception, and Language, sixth ed., vol. 2., Wiley, Hoboken, NJ, pp. 255-298], creativity [Chomsky, N. 1965. Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA], or something else? Ecological approaches [Reed, E.S., 1996. Encountering the World: Toward an Ecological Psychology. Oxford University Press, Oxford; Hodges, B.H., Baron, R.M. 1992. Values as constraints on affordances: perceiving and acting properly. Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 22, 263-294] put the focus on values. Reed's account highlights the collective appropriation of affordances, the precocious perception and enactment of "unfilled meanings," and children's becoming persons through the active structuring of their environment (e.g., gestural games, story-telling). Hodges and Baron's account of values as multiple, heterarchical, dynamical, and legitimating constraints on actions is applied to cases of pragmatic rule violations, particularly Hodges and Geyer's [Hodges, B.H., Geyer, A.L., 2006. A nonconformist account of the Asch experiments: Values, pragmatics, and moral dilemmas. Personality and Social Psychology Review 10, 2-19] reinterpretation of Asch's [Asch, S.E., 1956. Studies of independence and conformity: I. A minority of one against a unanimous majority. Psychological Monographs 70, (9) (Whole No. 416)] influential experiments on social influence and perception. These ecological, social, and values-realizing accounts suggest that conversations are about seeking good prospects, caring for others and self, and inviting responsible action. The possibility of language as a perceptual system [Gibson, J.J., 1966. The Senses Considered as Perceptual Systems. Houghton-Mifflin, Boston] for exploring dialogical arrays, and an action system [Reed, E.S., 1982. An outline of a theory of action systems. Journal of Motor Behavior 14, 97-134] for coordinating diverse space-time scales is considered. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
539	ecological	2007	Good, JMM	The affordances for social psychology of the ecological approach to social knowing	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the engagement of theory with mainstream social psychology in terms of developments in social cognition and perception. The particular focus is the development and reception of the 'ecological' or 'mutualist' approach to social perception and cognition. The introduction of some terms of central concern is followed by a brief review of some of the ontological and epistemological issues that have perplexed empirical studies of social knowing. This is followed by documentation and appraisal of attempts over the past twenty-five years to 'socialize' ecological psychology and to address the role of language and culture in social knowing. The final section considers some of the conceptual and methodological constraints that have impeded the promulgation of an ecological perspective. Although ecological notions have failed to make much impact on the mainstream, it is concluded that the growing interest in embedded and embodied cognition suggests the continuing relevance of the ecological approach with its relational ontology and emphasis on the reciprocity of perception and action.
540	ecological	2003	Vicente, KJ	Beyond the lens model and direct perception: Toward a broader ecological psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Despite sharing the label ecological psychology, Brunswikian and Gibsonian research programs are virtually independent scientific activities conducted by a virtually independent pair of scientific communities. The purpose of this article is to provide a theoretical integration of these 2 lines of work. The tens model and the theory of direct perception can each be viewed as specific versions of a more general research program that distinguishes between distal structure (i.e., "thing") and proximal structure (i.e., "medium") and that is based on the metatheoretical commitment to understanding human behavior by focusing on adaptation to functionally significant environmental regularities. The lens model deals with probabilistic relations between proximal and distal that require judgment and decision making, whereas direct perception deals with direct specification between proximal and distal that permits an intimate coupling with the environment. By showing how these 2 lines of work can be integrated theoretically, a number of important benefits can be obtained, including the furthering of the primary aim of science: the development of more unified and cumulative knowledge.
541	ecological	2009	Hodges, B	Ecological pragmatics Values, dialogical arrays, complexity, and caring	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	This paper explores the hypothesis that first-order linguistic activities are better understood in terms of ecological, values-realizing dynamics rather than in terms of rule-governed processes. Conversing, like other perception-action skills (e.g., driving) is constrained by multiple values, heterarchically organized. This hypothesis is explored in terms of three broad approaches that contrast with models of language which view it as a cognitive system: (1) conversing as a perceptual system for exploring dialogical arrays (Hodges 2007a); (2) conversing as an action system for integrating diverse space-time scales (Van Orden 2007); and (3) conversing as a caring system for embodying the context-sensitivity and interdependency necessary to realize values (Hodges 2007b). Approaching language as a caring action-perception system leads to a reconsideration of cognitive dimensions of linguistic activities, including consciousness, pragmatics, suffering, and hope.
542	ecological	2008	Michaels, CF; Arzamarski, R; Isenhower, RW; Jacobs, DM	Direct learning in dynamic touch	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	A dynamic touch paradigm in which participants judged the lengths of rods and pipes was used to test the D. M. Jacobs and C. F. Michaels (2007) theory of perceptual learning. The theory portrays perception as the exploitation of a locus on an information manifold and learning as continuous movement across that manifold to a new locus, as guided by information available in feedback. The information manifold was defined as a 1-dimensional space of inertial variables. To encourage maximal learning, a 2-step procedure was used in each of 2 experiments. Each step comprised a pretest to identify the starting locus on the information manifold, a practice phase in which feedback specifying the optimal locus was given, and a posttest in which the ending locus on the manifold was identified. In the 2nd step, a different feedback variable specified a different optimum. In both experiments, participants, who sometimes began at different loci, showed the predicted movement toward the optimum in each phase. Whereas previous applications of the theory posit the existence of information-for-learning without identifying a candidate variable, such a candidate is identified.
543	ecological	2007	Heft, H	The social constitution of perceiver-environment reciprocity	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Although animal-environment reciprocity is central to ecological psychology, one facet of this viewpoint remains underappreciated: organisms alter environments so as to better function in them. In many species this activity of "niche construction" includes coordinated actions by individuals jointly working toward common ends. Mounting paleontological and archeological evidence indicates that human evolution should be viewed in the light of such social considerations. The environment of our immediate human ancestors was marked by, among other things, group settlements, manufactured stone tools, and extensive migration. An emerging species such as ours, whose distinctive psychological qualities offered a selective advantage relative to these conditions, would flourish particularly if it could preserve the gains of prior generations even as its members continued to transform econiche features in functionally significant ways. This evolutionary perspective, with its due recognition of sociocultural processes, highlights 3 factors of importance for ecological psychology: (1) the history of person-environment reciprocity results in human environments whose natural and sociocultural factors are inextricably intertwined. (2) developing individuals enter human environments not as solitary explorers but through the guidance of more experienced persons with the result that much development takes shape through social mediation; and (3) a distinguishing and ubiquitous feature of human environments that is a product of collective human actions is places. Nearly all human activity, including most psychological research, occurs in places, and owing to their psychological significance, it would seem impossible to disentangle psychological and social processes. These 3 factors illuminate that a fully-realized ecological psychology will be one that includes recognition of the constitutive role played by social processes.
544	ecological	2014	Bruineberg, J; Rietveld, E	Self-organization, free energy minimization, and optimal grip on a field of affordances	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper, we set out to develop a theoretical and conceptual framework for the new field of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience. This framework should be able to integrate insights from several relevant disciplines: theory on embodied cognition, ecological psychology, phenomenology, dynamical systems theory, and neurodynamics. We suggest that the main task of Radical Embodied Cognitive Neuroscience is to investigate the phenomenon of skilled intentionality from the perspective of the self-organization of the brain-body-environment system, while doing justice to the phenomenology of skilled action. In previous work, we have characterized skilled intentionality as the organism's tendency toward an optimal grip on multiple relevant affordances simultaneously. Affordances are possibilities for action provided by the environment. In the first part of this paper, we introduce the notion of skilled intentionality and the phenomenon of responsiveness to a field of relevant affordances. Second, we use Friston's work on neurodynamics, but embed a very minimal version of his Free Energy Principle in the ecological niche of the animal. Thus amended, this principle is helpful for understanding the embeddedness of neurodynamics within the dynamics of the system "brain-body-landscape of affordances." Next, we show how we can use this adjusted principle to understand the neurodynamics of selective openness to the environment: interacting action-readiness patterns at multiple timescales contribute to the organism's selective openness to relevant affordances. In the final part of the paper, we emphasize the important role of metastable dynamics in both the brain and the brain-body-environment system for adequate affordance-responsiveness. We exemplify our integrative approach by presenting research on the impact of Deep Brain Stimulation on affordance responsiveness of OCD patients.
545	ecological	2006	Bonnet, CT; Faugloire, E; Riley, MA; Bardy, BG; Stoffregen, TA	Motion sickness preceded by unstable displacements of the center of pressure	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	We exposed standing participants to optic flow in a moving room. Motion sickness was induced by motion that simulated the amplitude and frequency of standing sway. We identified instabilities in displacements of the center of pressure among participants who became sick; these instabilities occurred before the onset of subjective motion sickness symptoms. Postural differences between Sick and Well participants were observed before exposure to the nauseogenic stimulus. During exposure to the nauseogenic stimulus, sway increased for participants who became sick but also for those who did not. However, at every point during exposure sway was greater for participants who became motion sick. The results reveal that motion sickness is preceded by instabilities in displacements of the center of pressure. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
546	ecological	2012	Heyser, CJ; Chemero, A	Novel object exploration in mice: Not all objects are created equal	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	Object exploration is an increasingly popular experimental paradigm in behavioral sciences. We have begun a series of studies with mice specifically looking at the parameters that influence behaviors in this test. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of object type on performance in the object exploration test. More specifically, adult male C57BL/6J mice were trained and tested using objects that could be climbed (CLIMB) or with those that could only be touched (TOUCH). The results show that activity is affected by the presentation of objects, with object type interacting with some of these changes. C57 mice explored objects that can be climbed over significantly longer than objects that can only be touched and a more rapid habituation was observed using objects that could only be touched. Robust recognition memory was observed in both groups of mice, however mice in the CLIMB group exhibited a significantly greater discrimination index compared to mice in the TOUCH group. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that the selection of objects is of critical importance and it is recommended that special attention be given to the functional (affordant) properties of the objects to-be-used in future studies. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
547	ecological	2009	Dicks, M; Davids, K; Button, C	Representative task designs for the study of perception and action in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	Empirical evidence indicates that. an underlying antecedent of sports expertise is the ability of skilled athletes to successfully use predictive information to guide Their anticipatory responses. This article discusses the nature of The relationship between expertise, perception and action. using ideas from ecological psychology (Gibson, 1979) and representative task design (Brunswik, 7956). This conceptual framework suggests that a shortcoming of many research studies is a failure to accurately sample the performance environments of which skilled athletes have experience. It is proposed that the task constraints used to study perception and action should closely represent the specific performance contexts towards which investigators are attempting to generalise. Comparison of the research literature using in situ and video simulation experimental paradigms suggests that athletes' performance may vary tinder different task constraints. These empirical findings need to be considered in future research on the study and training of perceptual skill.
548	ecological	2003	Wagman, JB; Miller, DB	Nested reciprocities: The organism-environment system in perception-action and development	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOBIOLOGY	The ecological approach to studying perception and action is one in which researchers view the structure in ambient energy arrays surrounding a given organism as being sufficient to specify meaningful environmental properties to that organism. Thus, from this perspective, perception is viewed not as a cognitive achievement but as a lawful state of affairs that exists in an organism-environment system. The approach to studying development known as transactionalism is one in which researchers view the developmental process as the expression of a complex web of endogenous and exogenous factors. Thus, from this perspective, development is not an unfolding of a genetic program, but rather an ongoing exchange among levels of the organism-environment system that continues throughout the life span of the organism. Despite their independent development, these two meta-theoretical approaches have much in common. In each approach, the organism-environment system is the fundamental unit of analysis, and the development of perception and behavior is spread across the multiple levels of this system. (C) 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
549	ecological	1996	Yardley, L	Reconciling discursive and materialist perspectives on health and illness - A reconstruction of the biopsychosocial approach	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines the feasibility of developing 'material-discursive' approaches suitable for studying the reciprocal interactions between the sociolinguistic and physical aspects of health and illness. The term 'discursive' is used in the broadest possible sense, to refer to a mode of description characterized by awareness of the socially constructed and linguistically mediated nature of human experience. Similarly, the term 'material' is extended to embrace any non-reductionist account of physical being which appears compatible with a discursive outlook. The obstacles to a material-discursive approach are discussed, with particular reference to the debate between researchers who conduct traditional quantitative and experimental research within the 'biopsychosocial' framework and those who advocate a radical anti-realist position and qualitative research. A variety of material-discursive perspectives are explored, ranging from consideration of the physical origins and manifestations of linguistic meaning and socio-cultural processes, to analysis of the consonance between social constructionism, phenomenology and James Gibson's ecological psychology.
550	ecological	2013	Kelty-Stephen, DG; Palatinus, K; Saltzman, E; Dixon, JA	A Tutorial on Multifractality, Cascades, and Interactivity for Empirical Time Series in Ecological Science	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Interactivity is a central theme of ecological psychology. According to Gibsonian views, behavior is the emergent property of interactions between organism and environment. Hence, an important challenge for ecological psychology has been to identify physical principles that provide an empirical window into interactivity. We suspect that multifractality, a concept from statistical physics, may be helpful in this regard, and we offer this article as a tutorial on multifractality with 2 main goals. First, we aim to describe multifractality with a series of simple, concrete, but progressively more elaborate examples that will incrementally elucidate the relationship between multifractality and interactivity. Second, we aim to describe a direct estimation method for computing the multifractal spectrum (e.g., Chhabra & Jensen, 1989), presenting it as an alternative that avoids the pitfalls of more popular methods and that may address more appropriately the measurements traditionally taken by ecological psychologists. In sum, this tutorial aims to unpack the theoretical background for an analytical method allowing rigorous test of interactivity in a variety of empirical settings.
551	ecological	2005	Montagne, G	Prospective control in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	It is generally assumed that the ability to interact successfully with both stationary and moving bodies or surfaces of the environment in sports, for example, relies on predictive control mechanisms. Knowing in advance when and where a forthcoming event (e.g., ball interception) will take place is thought to be a necessary condition for planning the appropriate action and adapting one's movements. Conversely prospective control mechanisms allow actors to produce on-line regulations based on the Perception of their current relationship to the environment. This review is designed to provide evidence obtained from various sports in support of the use of prospective control mechanisms. These mechanisms are functional, in the sense that they allow the actor to adapt to unexpected changes.. They are also parsimonious, in that they enable the actor to accommodate future events without having to make calculations or inferences. The influence of learning on the implementation and attunement of these mechanisms is discussed, and some concluding remarks for sport psychologists are made.
552	ecological	2010	Ugur, E; Sahin, E	Traversability: A Case Study for Learning and Perceiving Affordances in Robots	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The concept of affordances, introduced in psychology by J. J. Gibson, has recently attracted interest in the development of cognitive systems in autonomous robotics. In earlier work (Sahin, Cakmak, Dogar, Ugur, & Ucoluk), we reviewed the uses of this concept in different fields and proposed a formalism to use affordances at different levels of robot control. In this article, we first review studies in ecological psychology on the learning and perception of traversability in organisms and describe how the existence of traversability was judged to exist. We then describe the implementation of one part of the affordance formalism for the learning and perception of traversability affordances on a mobile robot equipped with range sensing ability. Through experiments inspired by ecological psychology, we show that the robot, by interacting with its environment, can learn to perceive the traversability affordances. Moreover, we claim that three of the main attributes that are commonly associated with affordances, that is, affordances being relative to the environment, providing perceptual economy, and providing general information, are simply consequences of learning from the interactions of the robot with the environment.
553	ecological	2009	Withagen, R; Chemero, A	Naturalizing Perception Developing the Gibsonian Approach to Perception along Evolutionary Lines	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	We believe that one of the most important aspects of Gibson's ecological psychology is his attempted naturalization of perception, that is, his attempt to place perception in the context of evolutionary theory. However, the dominant neo-Gibsonian approach to perception has been criticized for being inconsistent with evolutionary theory. We argue that a central tenet of this approach indeed runs counter to evolutionary considerations. Based on an evolutionary analysis of the use of information, we sketch an alternative development of Gibson's pioneering ideas. A truly naturalistic theory of perception, we argue, should recognize both suboptimalities in perception and variation among the members of a population in what informational variables are used. Like other variable organismal features, the use of information is a function of multiple factors. We will compare this naturalistic ecological approach with both Gibson's own perspective and more recent frameworks.
554	ecological	2002	Renaud, P; Bouchard, S; Proulx, R	Behavioral avoidance dynamics in the presence of a virtual spider	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN BIOMEDICINE	Tracking behavior with a virtual spider and a neutral target is compared in fearful and nonfearful subjects. Head-tracking in virtual environments appears to be a scale-free behavior with long-range fractal-like patterns. Moreover, these fractal patterns change according to what the target affords the tracker and the level of behavioral avoidance manifested by the subjects. Results are interpreted in terms of ecological psychology and nonlinear dynamics, and implications for virtual reality (VR) psychology are outlined.
555	ecological	1979	WICKER, AW	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY - SOME RECENT AND PROSPECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	0
556	ecological	2010	Van Orden, GC; Kello, CT; Holden, JG	Situated Behavior and the Place of Measurement in Psychological Theory	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Measured values of human behavior may entail contradictory attributes of wave and particle by analogy with the wave/particle attributes of the electron. 1/f scaling is the wave attribute in this analogy and punctate data points are the particle attribute. One consequence of the wave/particle duality in physics was to elevate measurement to a primary place in physical theory, and one purpose of the present analogy is to likewise elevate measurement to a primary place in psychological theory. Another purpose is to emulate Robert Shaw's creative use of analogies, consistent with the brief quotation that begins this article. Anytime you take a measurement you establish a dynamic linkage between two systems. (Robert Shaw, personal communication, March 10, 1998)
557	ecological	2007	Sadler, E; Given, LM	Affordance theory: a framework for graduate students' information behavior	JOURNAL OF DOCUMENTATION	Purpose - This study seeks to apply ecological psychology's concept of "affordance" to graduate students' information behavior in the academic library, and to explore the extent to which the affordances experienced by graduate students differed from the affordances librarians were attempting to provide. Design/methodology/approach - In-depth, qualitative interviews with graduate students and academic librarians explored how the students perceived and used the library's various "opportunities for action" (e.g. books, databases, instructional sessions, librarians, physical space, etc.) and compared these perceptions and behavior with librarians' intentions and expectations. Findings - Findings indicate a disparity between expectations and experience and point to graduate students as an underserved population in this context, especially in terms of the library's outreach efforts. In addition, because graduate students are increasingly teaching introductory undergraduate courses, communication methods that bypass graduate students tend to miss undergraduate students as well. Practical implications - Practical implications discussed in this paper include possible methods of improving communication channels between graduate students and academic librarians, and considerations for information literacy instruction. Originality/value - This paper presents a unique perspective by using affordance theory to frame students and librarians' expectations about library services. The findings are particularly valuable for their implications for library-patron communication and information literacy.
558	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH	Values define fields: The intentional dynamics of driving, carrying, leading, negotiating, and conversing	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	What is the relation between ecological, social, and cognitive psychology? The thesis described and illustrated in this article is that a psychology of values (e.g., Hodges & Baron, 1992) provides the basis for prospecting an ecological psychology that is more sensitive to the social and moral dimensions of action, and for developing a social psychology that is more ecological and embodied. This social-ecological, values -realizing psychology may provide new insights into issues that are viewed as cognitive (e.g., language) as well. First, ecological studies of driving (e.g., Gibson & Crooks, 1938) and carrying (Hodges & Lindhiem, 2006) are reviewed to illustrate a values -realizing approach to psychology and to evaluate whether social and moral constraints are intrusions or intrinsic constraints. Second, in the social domain Asch's (1956) studies of social influence and perception are reframed in terms of leading and following, requiring the coordination of multiple values and multiple relationships. Third, more ecological and social approaches to language studies are considered, with a focus on embodied activity and the inadequacy of rule-based accounts. It is proposed that central functions of language are seeking good prospects, caring, and wayfinding. More generally, caring emerges as a central theme and a crucial context for activities as diverse as driving, carrying, conversing, and negotiating disagreements.
559	ecological	2000	Kadar, EE; Shaw, RE	Toward an ecological field theory of perceptual control of locomotion	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The field concept was introduced into physics in the 19th century. Soon afterward, some Gestaltists tried to use this approach to characterize the internal global brain process. Conversely, another Gestaltist, Lewin (1938), tried to develop a field description of the physical and social environment in which the brain field was immersed. Later, J. J. Gibson (Gibson & Crooks, 1938/1982) attempted to conceptualize the environment-organism interaction in field theoretic terms. First, he suggested that a dynamical field of safe travel may be used by drivers to control their automobiles in traffic while avoiding collisions. Later, Gibson and his colleagues (Gibson, 1950; Gibson, Olum, & Rosenblatt, 1955) showed, mathematically, how an optic flow field chat actors may use in selecting approach paths for landing aircraft safely is available. Over the ensuing decades, the optic flow field description has provided a powerful and popular tool for addressing a number of diverse problems in visual perception as it pertains to the control of action. Although in a seminal article, Gibson (1958) outlined a general theory of visually controlled locomotion a recently published special issue on this topic tin Ecological Psychology; W. H. Warren, 1998) revealed that in even simple tasks (e.g., steering), intentional and informational constraints are still not yet understood. This article critically reviews the history of field theoretical approaches to the problem of perceptual control of goal-directed behavior. In particular, our overview focuses on the historical sources and development of Gibson's field theoretic attempts to ad dress the visual control of locomotion. Our overview also provides an evaluation of recent field theoretical efforts to describe animal-environment interactions. We conclude that the use of interaction fields seems to be the most promising current approach. Because these fields incorporate both perceptual and action variables, they provide a natural way to formulate the perceiving-acting cycle as the reciprocal interplay of information and control along a goal-directed path. Finally, field theory, we suggest, provides an important tool because its power can be readily extended to include other useful techniques as well (e.g., quantum mechanical path space formalisms).
560	ecological	2002	Wells, AJ	Gibson's affordances and Turing's theory of computation	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of affordance is a central component of the ecological psychology of J. J. Gibson (1966, 1977, 1979/1986). Affordances are properties of the environment taken relative to an observer. Ecological theorists have developed formal models for the analysis of affordances. Models proposed by Shaw and Turvey (1981), Turvey (1992), and Greeno (1994) are described and evaluated, and another approach, using Turing's (1936-1937/19.65) theory of computation, is outlined. Affordances are characterized as the configurations of Turing machines. It is shown that Turing's work provides a natural vehicle for exploring Gibson's ideas.
561	ecological	2013	Glaveanu, VP	Rewriting the Language of Creativity: The Five A's Framework	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	For the past 5 decades the psychology of creativity has been influenced by what is known as the 4 P's of creative expression: person, process, product, and press. This conceptual schema, initially proposed by Rhodes (1961), helped researchers structure their thinking about the phenomenon. However, it also supported an individualistic, static, and oftentimes disjointed vision of creativity. The present article aims to rewrite this fundamental language of the discipline by using terms that explicitly endorse a systemic, contextual, and dynamic approach. The 5 A's framework- actor, action, artifact, audience, affordances- is grounded in current literature from sociocultural and ecological psychology as well as theories of the distributed mind and tries to achieve a more comprehensive and unitary perspective on creativity. Several theoretical, methodological, and practical implications are considered.
562	ecological	2009	Renshaw, I; Davids, K; Shuttleworth, R; Chow, JY	Insights from Ecological Psychology and Dynamical Systems. Theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	The aim of this paper is to show how principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory can underpin a philosophy of coaching practice in a nonlinear pedagogy. Nonlinear pedagogy is based on a view of the human movement system as a nonlinear dynamical system and has been basically defined as the application Of concepts and tools Of nonlinear dynamics to coaching practice. A systems orientation is adopted to show bow nonlinear dynamical movement systems demonstrate at? openness to environmental information flows, use inherent degeneracy to adapt movements to dynamic environments, show capacity for self-organisation, and fluctuate between stability and instability as changes in constraints on performance shape transitions in system organisation. We demonstrate bow ibis perspective of the human movement system can aid understanding of motor learning processes and underpin practice for sports coaches. We provide a description of nonlinear pedagogy followed by a consideration of some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology and dynamical systems theory that underpin it as a coaching philosophy. We illustrate bow each principle impacts on nonlinear pedagogical coaching practice, demonstrating how they can substantiate a framework for the coaching process.
563	ecological	2008	Mossio, M; Taraborelli, D	Action-dependent perceptual invariants: From ecological to sensorimotor approaches	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Ecological and sensorimotor theories of perception build on the notion of action-dependent invariants as the basic structures underlying perceptual capacities. In this paper we contrast the assumptions these theories make oil the nature of perceptual information modulated by action. By focusing on the question, how movement specifies perceptual information, we show that ecological and sensorimotor theories endorse substantially different views about the role of action in perception. In particular we argue that ecological invariants are characterized with reference to transformations produced in the sensory array by movement: such invariants are transformation-specific but do not imply motor-specificity. In contrast, sensorimotor theories assume that perceptual invariants are intrinsically tied to specific movements. We show that this difference leads to different empirical predictions and we submit that the distinction between motor equivalence and motor-specificity needs further clarification in order to provide a more constrained account of action/perception relations. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
564	ecological	2005	Cummins-Sebree, SE; Fragaszy, DM	Choosing and using tools: Capuchins (Cebus apella) use a different metric than tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) selected canes positioned so that a straight inward pull brought food within reach (M. D. Hauser, 1997). Tamarins failed to retrieve food with canes in other positions, and they did not reposition these canes. In this study, tufted capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) preferred canes they could pull straight in when these were present, but they also repositioned canes in individually variable ways, and their success at obtaining food with repositioned canes improved with practice. In accord with predictions drawn from ecological psychology, capuchins discovered affordances of canes through exploratory actions with these objects, whereas tamarins did not. Ecological theory predicts these differences on the basis of species-typical manipulative activity, and it provides a useful approach for the study of species differences in tool-using behavior.
565	ecological	2005	Morineau, T; Blanche, C; Tobin, L; Gueguen, N	The emergence of the contextual role of the e-book in cognitive processes through an ecological and functional analysis	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	An electronic book is a new means of presenting text, allowing downloading of documents and multiple readings on a portable computer. On the basis of an ecological and functional analysis of paper and electronic books with the Abstraction Hierarchy method, we tested the ability of a mobile e-book device to be an external memory trigger, assisting the recall of information content through its presence as a contextual index. In contrast to the classical experimental approach for research on reading and comprehension, we consider screen and paper as relevant cognitive tools per se. Specifically, we compare a book on a pocket computer and a paper book. Hypothesising that the physical reading support could serve as a contextual cue for memory, we experimented with groups of participants who could or could not see the support during recall. We measured the reading time, and the material later recalled was classified according to its cognitive nature. After recall, participants had to assess the sensory-motor properties of the reading support with the Osgood semantic differential and to note the humour level of the text. Results show that the e-book presence hinders recall of assimilated information whilst the presence of the paper support tends to facilitate it. Finally, we observed some correlation between sensory-motor assessment of the support and certain aspects of text cognitive processing: humour scoring, reading time and recall performance. These results lead us to conclude there is a critical relation between the sensory-motor experience of the support and the cognitive processing of the text content. This relationship might explain the positive or negative contextual effect of the support on recall performance. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
566	ecological	2011	Mon-Williams, M; Bingham, GP	Discovering affordances that determine the spatial structure of reach-to-grasp movements	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	Extensive research has identified the affordances used to guide actions, as originally conceived by Gibson (Perceiving, acting, and knowing: towards an ecological psychology. Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1977; The ecological approach to visual perception. Erlbaum, Hillsdale, 1979/1986). We sought to discover the object affordance properties that determine the spatial structure of reach-to-grasp movements-movements that entail both collision avoidance and targeting. First, we constructed objects that presented a significant collision hazard and varied properties relevant to targeting, namely, object width and size of contact surface. Participants reached-to-grasp objects at three speeds (slow, normal, and fast). In Experiment 1, we explored a "stop" task where participants grasped the objects without moving them. In Experiment 2, we studied "fly-through" movements where the objects were lifted. We discovered the object affordance properties that produced covariance in the spatial structure of reaches-to-grasp. Maximum grasp aperture (MGA) reflected affordances determined by collision avoidance. Terminal grasp aperture (TGA)-when the hand stops moving but prior to finger contact-reflected affordances relevant to targeting accuracy. A model with a single free parameter predicted the prehensile spatial structure and provided a functional affordance-based account of that structure. In Experiment 3, we investigated a "slam" task where participants reached-to-grasp flat rectangular objects on a tabletop. The affordance structure of this task was found to eliminate the collision risk and thus reduced safety margins in MGA and TGA to zero for larger objects. The results emphasize the role of affordances in determining the structure and scaling of reach-to-grasp actions. Finally, we report evidence supporting the opposition vector as an appropriate unit of analysis in the study of grasping and a unit of action that maps directly to affordance properties.
567	ecological	2010	Withagen, R; van der Kamp, J	Towards a new ecological conception of perceptual information: Lessons from a developmental systems perspective	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Over the last decades or so, empirical studies of perception, action, learning, and development have revealed that participants vary in what variable they detect and often rely on nonspecifying variables. This casts doubt on the Gibsonian conception of information as specification. It is argued that a recent ecological conception of information has solved important problems, but insufficiently explains what determines the object of perception. Drawing on recent work on developmental systems, we sketch the outlines of an alternative conception of perceptual information. It is argued that perceptual information does not reside in the ambient arrays; rather, perceptual information is a relational property of patterns in the array and perceptual processes. What a pattern in the ambient flow informs about depends on the perceiver who uses it. We explore the implications of this alternative conception of information for the ecological approach to perception and action. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
568	ecological	2005	Warren, K; Schoppelrey, S; Moberg, DP; McDonald, M	A model of contagion through competition in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students	JOURNAL OF ABNORMAL CHILD PSYCHOLOGY	This article extends the work of Kellam, Ling, Merisca, Brown and Ialongo (1998) by applying a mathematical model of competition between children to peer contagion in the aggressive behaviors of elementary school students. Nonlinearity in the relationship between group aggression and individual aggression at 2-year follow-up is present. Consistent with the findings of Kellam et al. (1998), hierarchical linear modeling indicates that the relationship is statistically significant for those students whose initial parental ratings of aggressive behavior were above the sample median. In the context of competition between students, the behavior of initially aggressive students may be negatively reinforced. Lowering aggression in the school environment may therefore be the most effective way to lower the level of these students aggressive behavior.
569	ecological	2004	Costall, A	From Darwin to Watson (and cognitivism) and back again: The principle of animal-environment mutuality	BEHAVIOR AND PHILOSOPHY	Modern cognitive psychology presents itself as the revolutionary alternative to behaviorism, yet there are blatant continuities between modem cognitivism and the mechanistic kind of behaviorism that cognitivists have in mind, such as their commitment to methodological behaviorism, the stimulus-response schema, and the hypothetico-deductive method. Both mechanistic behaviorism and cognitive behaviorism remain trapped within the dualisms created by the traditional ontology of physical science-dualisms that, one way or another, exclude us from the "physical world." Darwinian theory, however, put us back into nature. The Darwinian emphasis upon the mutuality of animal and environment was further developed by, among others, James, Dewey, and Mead. Although their functionalist approach to psychology was overtaken by Watson's behaviorism, the principle of animal-environment dualism continued to figure (though somewhat inconsistently) within the work of Skinner and Gibson. For the clearest insights into the mutuality of organism and environment we need to set the clock back quite a few years and return to the work of Darwin and the early functionalist psychologists.
570	ecological	1998	Kuo, FY	Managerial intuition and the development of executive support systems	DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS	Managerial intuition is a well-recognized cognitive ability but still poorly understood for the purpose of developing effective Executive Support Systems (ESS). This paper reviews research on cognition involved in intuition. The review shows that, in everyday decision making, executives are not passive choice makers but are active sensemakers who rely on perception, action, and imaginistic reasoning to arrive at solutions to problems. The combination of these cognitive resources appears to be seamless. Furthermore, the knowledge needed for problem solving is distributed between the manager's mind and the surrounding world. As a result, managers' intuition can be effective in handling dynamic, ill-structured problem situations. To develop an ESS that fits this perception-action ecology of the manager's life in a hectic world, we must go beyond the emphasis of the tasks' functionalities. The author proposes an ecological model of managerial intuition and recommends methodologies that focus the analysis on the interplay between the manager and their environment. He also suggests guidelines to improve the ESS development such that the powerful intuition of managers and the analytic capability of the computer may be combined. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
571	ecological	1992	WATTS, RJ	ELEMENTS OF A PSYCHOLOGY OF HUMAN-DIVERSITY	JOURNAL OF COMMUNITY PSYCHOLOGY	Despite new movements in psychology that are supportive of human diversity, there is no general framework for relating significant social-psychological markers like gender, race, age, sexual orientation, and other aspects of human diversity to theory, research, and action in community psychology. This article reviews four perspectives that can contribute to a general psychology of human diversity: the population-specific psychologies (e.g., Asian-American psychology, the psychology of women, African-American psychology), sociopolitical perspectives (emphasizing historical, economic, and systems analysis and the dynamics of oppression), cross-cultural psychology (emphasizing culture, and inter- as well as intragroup methods), and ecological psychology (emphasizing the dynamics of specific settings and the people in them). Using tenets of social constructionist philosophy and an emphasis on social equity and cultural relativism to create a value stance, the relevant concepts from each perspective are discussed. The implications of this emerging diversity-conscious worldview for research, action, and theory in community psychology are also considered.
572	ecological	1999	Buekers, M; Montagne, G; de Rugy, A; Laurent, M	The regulation of externally paced human locomotion in virtual reality	NEUROSCIENCE LETTERS	The goal of the present experiment was to study regulation of human locomotion under externally paced temporal constraints. On a screen placed in front of a treadmill a virtual hallway was projected (Silicon Graphics systems) in which a pair of doors were presented that continuously opened and closed at a rate of 1 Hz. Subjects were attached to a locometer and instructed to regulate walking pace such that the doors were passed correctly. Performance outcome, movement kinematics (stride duration, stride length and synchronization of stride and door cycles) and flow patterns (change in visual angle of door aperture) were used to examine the data. The analysis of the synchronization patterns indicates that stride cycles were not linked to the period of door oscillation. Moreover, results for stride duration reveal that subjects walked at their preferred speed up to the final phase of the approach. This observation is supported by the inspection of the flow patterns, revealing a final increase in variability as a result of regulation. In sum, regulation of locomotion under externally paced temporal constraints seems to generate a specific functional behavior. It appears that regulations are postponed until the final stage of the approach during which adaptations are made according to the requirements of the current situation. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
573	ecological	2014	Strong, DM; Volkoff, O; Johnson, SA; Pelletier, LR; Tulu, B; Bar-On, I; Trudel, J; Garber, L	A Theory of Organization-EHR Affordance Actualization	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	While organizations implement information technology (IT) to effect change, current theories of IT-associated organizational change pay insufficient attention to the change goals, the role of IT in organizational change, and the multilevel nature of change processes. We take a fresh look at IT-associated organizational change using grounded theory methods. Our longitudinal study of an electronic health record (EHR) system implementation in a multi-site medical group found user behaviors that did not fit well with existing theories. Instead, we found that they fit better with the concept of affordances from ecological psychology. In developing our affordance-based theory of IT-associated organizational change from our field data, we discovered three gaps in the affordance literature; namely, the lack of theory for (1) the process of actualizing an affordance's potential, (2) affordances in an organizational context, and (3) bundles of interrelated affordances. This paper extends the theory of affordances to handle these three gaps and, in doing so, develops a mid-range theory for EHR-associated organizational change in a healthcare organization. While the resulting theory is specific to EHR implementations, it offers a template for other mid-range affordance-actualization theories and a more general affordance-actualization lens. Our affordance-actualization lens considers the materiality of the IT artifact, the non-deterministic process by which IT leads to organizational effects, the multilevel nature of IT-associated change processes, and the intentionality of managers and users as agents of change, and thus addresses important criteria for theories of IT effects in organizations. The paper also provides practical guidance for implementing EHR systems and other organizational systems.
574	ecological	1998	Still, A; Good, J	The ontology of mutualism	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Like ecological psychology, mutualism is a differentiation theory in which changes in perception involve differentiating against a background rather than internal elaborations on sparse inputs. In addition, the social is primary and ontologically distinct, not just the result of unusually elaborate constructions from physical inputs or of extraordinarily complex affordances, We draw our ontology from a broad tradition traced back to William James, which includes James Gibson as well as Husserl, Dewey, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, and Levinas. Other recent ontologies for ecological psychology have drawn on Heidegger (his concept of "equipment"; Kadar & Effken, 1994) and Merleau-Ponty (Sanders, 1993, 1997). Although both elaborate and clarify important aspects of the tradition, we And limitations in their contributions, especially in the Heideggerian account of the "the other" and in Merleau-Ponty's Cartesian attempt to separate the lived body from the body of science. We turn back to Husserl to bring out links with Gibson in their common insight into the importance of kinesthesis, and also of the social (social affordances in Gibson, intersubjectivity in Husserl) as the pivotal aspect of human experience. Neither succeeded in bringing these together in a single ontology. To do justice, for a mutualist ontology, to both kinesthesis and the social, we draw on Levinas's critique of Heidegger and his concept of "the face" or the "face to face" and its ethical "demands." Levinas seeks a source of direct awareness of such demands prior to intellectual and conceptual activity and independent of rules. This, we argue, can be found in Gibson's concept of information and kinesthesis, but to unite Levinas and Gibson in this way requires a new ontological category, corresponding to Levinas' face-to face. With this, "the other" is perceived directly as a source of an ethical demand that cannot be reduced to affordances or equipment.
575	ecological	2012	Gutkin, TB	Ecological Psychology: Replacing the Medical Model Paradigm for School-Based Psychological and Psychoeducational Services INTRODUCTION	JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSULTATION	Traditional medical model service delivery systems have facilitated the creation of nationwide mental health and education pandemics for children and youth. The characteristics and shortcomings of medical model approaches leading to these problems are explicated, including the focus of services on individuals rather than populations, relying almost exclusively on remediation rather than prevention and early intervention, unintentionally creating a severe shortage of service providers, and providing treatments that lack sufficient efficacy. An ecological model of human behavior and service delivery is presented as an alternative that embodies the potential to address these problems and successfully address the mental health and education pandemics we currently face. It is concluded that a paradigm shift toward an ecological model is both essential and long overdue.
576	ecological	2012	Turvey, MT; Carello, C	On Intelligence From First Principles: Guidelines for Inquiry Into the Hypothesis of Physical Intelligence (PI)	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Gibson's (1966, 1979/1986) ecological approach to perception, action, and cognition is patently non-representational and non-computational. In the place of these commonly assumed neural endowments, ecological psychology seeks to expose the laws that underlie intelligent capabilities. It is argued that this is the goal for understanding the directed behavior of not just humans, not just animals, and not just the living. We argue that an approach to intelligence that is physically grounded is completely consistent with-and is even a natural consequence of-the central tenets of ecological psychology. We identify two dozen guidelines for seeking intelligence in first principles.
577	ecological	2001	Chemero, A	What we perceive when we perceive affordances: Commentary on Michaels (2000) "Information, perception, and action"	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In her article "Information, Perception, and Action: What Should Ecological Psychologists Learn From Milner and Goodale (1995)?" Michaels (2000) reached 2 conclusions that run very much against the grain of ecological psychology. First, she claimed that affordances are not perceived but simply acted on; second, because of this, perception and action ought to be conceived separately. These conclusions are based on a misinterpretation of empirical evidence that is, in turn, based on a conflation of 2 proper objects of perception: objectively specified objects with properties and affordances.
578	ecological	2003	Visalberghi, E; Neel, C	Tufted capuchins (Cebus apella) use weight and sound to choose between full and empty nuts	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Wild capuchins (Cebus apella) feed on high-energy husked fruits. Field researchers suggest that capuchins select beforehand the fruits that are worthwhile to crack open. We assessed whether captive capuchins use sound and/or weight as proximal causes to infer the fullness of a nut (full nuts are heavier and produce a low-pitched frequency sound when tapped). Two subjects had to choose between a nut shell contain, ing food and another nut shell without food differing in weight and sound (Phase 1), or weight only (Phases 2 and 4), or sound only (Phase 3). Both subjects readily solved Phase 1 and 2. The only subject who spontaneously finger-tapped on the nut shells solved Phase 3. The minimal difference in weight perceived ranged between 2.1 and 3 g. Therefore, as expected by ecological psychology and optimal foraging theory, data suggest that capuchins seek information to discriminate effectively between full and empty nuts before going through the costly opening process.
579	ecological	2000	Lickliter, R	An ecological approach to behavioral development: Insights from comparative psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In this article, I review recent work from comparative psychology, highlighting several conceptual and methodological insights drawn from comparative research and exploring their value to an ecological approach to behavioral development. In particular, I consider examples of a major focus of comparative psychology, the search for developmental mechanisms and processes underlying the expression of species-typical behavior. This focus has provided several insights regarding behavioral development that have supported an ecological approach and provided a richness and depth of perspective on behavior complementary to that found in ecological psychology. Specifically, I review the related notions of probabilism, equifinality, nonlinearity, and distributed control and discuss their applicability to and support of ecological theory.
580	ecological	2002	Krippner, SC	Conflicting perspectives on Shamans and Shamanism: Points and counterpoints	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Shamans' communities grant them privileged status to attend to those groups' psychological and spiritual needs. Shamans claim to modify their attentional states and engage in activities that enable them to access information not ordinarily attainable by members of the social group that has granted them shamanic status. Western perspectives on shamanism have changed and clashed over the centuries; this address presents points and counterpoints regarding what might be termed the demonic model, the charlatan model, the schizophrenia model, the soul flight model, the degenerative and crude technology model, and the deconstructionist model. Western interpretations of shamanism often reveal more about the observer than they do about the observed; in addressing this challenge, the study of shamanism could make contributions to cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, psychological therapy, and ecological psychology.
581	ecological	1997	deJong, HL	Some remarks on a relational concept of mind	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper inquires whether psychology should be internalist or externalist, that is, whether it should consider mind as an entity in itself, or rather as a relation with the environment. Some influential theoretical arguments for internalist psychology are critically reviewed and it is concluded that there is no compelling reason for internalist psychological taxonomies. Next, some proposals for a functional or relational type of explanation in psychology are explored, and it is argued that they provide a workable alternative for internalist explanations. Finally, Gibson's ecological psychology is adduced to show the empirical feasibility of a psychology that explicitly includes environmental considerations in psychological taxonomies.
582	ecological	1994	KADAR, E; EFFKEN, J	HEIDEGGERIAN MEDITATIONS ON AN ALTERNATIVE ONTOLOGY FOR ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY - A RESPONSE	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In his last book, Gibson (1979/1986) clearly described crucial elements for an ontology for ecological psychology, but left his overarching ontology implicit and incomplete.  As a partial remedy, Turvey (1992) presented a compact, well-packaged outline of an ontology for ecological psychology derived in part from the work of Bunge.  In appreciation of Turvey's pioneering and thought-provoking attack on this difficult issue, we offer our own reflections on Turvey's propertied realism.  In reviewing Turvey's work we use both the insights of Heidegger and recent experimental findings in ecological psychology to argue for the need for a different ontological foundation.  We argue that a Heideggerian ontology can provide us with a broader and more complete ontological foundation with which to deal with complex issues, such as prospective control, than can Turvey's proposed ontology.  Also, we suggest that a Heideggerian ontology can be used to supply what is missing or understated in Gibson.  We argue against propertied realism as a basis for ecological psychology's ontology and contend that a proper conception of intentionality provides a way to transcend traditional object-subject ontologies.  We propose that fields should be considered real ontological entities that differ from matter.  Finally, we reflect on how the highly nonscientific language of Heidegger might possibly be formalized to make it more suitable for scientific use.
583	ecological	1996	Wagenaar, RC; vanEmmerik, REA	Dynamics of movement disorders	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	The expediency of the ecological and dynamical approaches to perception and action in the study of movement disorders is investigated in this special issue. Some theoretical assumptions of these approaches will be addressed and examples of its application in the field of movement disorders will be presented. The contributions in this special issue are aimed at improving diagnostics of pathological movement behavior in activities such as gait, posture as well as grasping and hitting objects. In this introduction the relevance of ecological and dynamical approaches to the treatment of movement disorders will be pinpointed as well. In particular, the role of 'discovery learning' and 'behavioral information' in relearning dynamics will be discussed.
584	ecological	2001	Kulikowich, JM; Young, MF	Locating an ecological psychology methodology for situated action	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	We attempt to describe what a methodology for situated action should do for students given problem solving in school settings. Working from an ecological account of perception-action, we propose that a methodology for understanding situated action should afford the instructional designer (often the classroom teacher), the methodologist, and the problem solver opportunities to co-construct coupling dynamics that operate on multiple space and time scales including "real time." With this goal in mind, we propose the use of the Jasper Planning Assistant (JPA), an online learning and assessment system that becomes part of the design-learning-research situation and serves as a scaffold for the learner. Through analysis of log-file data produced by the JPA, we illustrate that a methodology for situated action should be neither a purely quantitative nor qualitative account, but rather an inscription-an emergent visualization of the coupling dynamics between a student and his or her environment. We conclude that ideally this emergent inscription should reveal the multiple space times in which problem solving is occurring, yet be reductive in such a way as to create affordances for future action: Methodology should have functional value.
585	ecological	2010	Withagen, R; van Wermeskerken, M	The Role of Affordances in the Evolutionary Process Reconsidered A Niche Construction Perspective	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Gibson asserted that affordances are the primary objects of perception. Although this assertion is especially attractive when considered in the context of evolutionary theory, the role that affordances play in the evolution of animals' perceptual and action systems is still unclear. Trying to combine the insights of both Gibson and Darwin, Reed developed a selectionist view in which affordances are conceived as resources that exert selection pressures, giving rise to animals equipped with action systems. Reed's advocacy of selectionism, however, has been criticized on several grounds, among which is an inconsistency with recent trends in evolutionary thinking. Current developments in evolutionary biology indeed ask for a reconsideration of the role of affordances in the evolution of perceptual and action systems. Adopting a niche construction perspective, we reexamine the role of affordances in the evolutionary process. It is argued that affordances and their utilization, destruction, and creation are central elements in evolutionary dynamics. The implications for ecological psychology and evolutionary theory are explored.
586	ecological	2009	Kono, T	Social Affordances and the Possibility of Ecological Linguistics	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	This paper includes an effort to extend the notion of affordance from a philosophical point of view the importance of ecological approach for social psychology, ethics, and linguistics. Affordances are not always merely physical but also interpersonal and social. I will conceptualize affordance in general and social affordance in particular, and will elucidate the relation between intentional action and affordances, and that between affordances and free will. I will also focus on the relation between social institution and affordance. An extended theory of affordances can provide a way to analyze in concrete ways how social institution works as an implicit background of interpersonal interactions. Ecological approach considers social institution as the producer and maintainer of affordances. Social institutions construct the niches for human beings. Finally, I will argue the possibility of the ecological linguistics. Language is a social institution. The system of signs is the way to articulate and differentiate interpersonal affordances. Language acquires its meaning, i.e. communicative power in the interpersonal interactions, and interpersonal interactions, in turn, develop and are elaborated through the usage of signs. Communication is seen as never aimed to transmit inner ideas to others, but to guide and adjust the behaviors of others thorough articulating the affordance of responsible-ness.
587	ecological	1993	COSTALL, A	BEYOND LINEAR PERSPECTIVE - A CUBIST MANIFESTO FOR VISUAL SCIENCE	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	Both James Gibson's ecological approach to vision and recent research in computer vision have challenged linear perspective as the foundation for understanding either vision or pictures. There is a gro wing appreciation of the diversity of informative structures available to perceivers, and of the fact that many of these structures are not tied to any single viewpoint. The convergences between these approaches are explored with reference to the existing research on picture perception and production.
588	ecological	2012	Withagen, R; Chemero, A	Affordances and classification: On the significance of a sidebar in James Gibson's last book	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This article is about a sidebar in James Gibson's last book, The ecological approach to visual perception. In this sidebar, Gibson, the founder of the ecological perspective of perception and action, argued that to perceive an affordance is not to classify an object. Although this sidebar has received scant attention, it is of great significance both historically and for recent discussions about specificity, direct perception, and the functions of the dorsal and ventral streams. It is argued that Gibson's acknowledgment of Wittgenstein's ideas of classification suggests a limited scope of his theory of direct perception-it cannot account for the classification of objects. The implications for both the specification debate and theorizing about the brain's dorsal and ventral pathways are explored. Based on a recent ecological conception of information and direct perception, we ultimately argue that both affordance perception and classification are direct.
589	ecological	2011	Hart, S; Grupen, R	Learning Generalizable Control Programs	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	In this paper, we present a framework for guiding autonomous learning in robot systems. The paradigm we introduce allows a robot to acquire new skills according to an intrinsic motivation function that finds behavioral affordances. Affordances-in the sense of (Gibson, Toward and Ecological Psychology, Hillsdale, NJ, 1977)-describe the latent possibilities for action in the environment and provide a direct means of organizing functional knowledge in embodied systems. We begin by showing how a robot can assemble closed-loop action primitives from its sensory and motor resources, and then show how these primitives can be sequenced into multi-objective policies. We then show how these policies can be assembled hierarchically to support incremental and cumulative learning. The main contribution of this paper demonstrates how the proposed intrinsic motivator for affordance discovery can cause a robot to both acquire such hierarchical policies using reinforcement learning and then to generalize these policies to new contexts. As the framework is described, its effectiveness and applicability is demonstrated through a longitudinal learning experiment on a bimanual robot.
590	ecological	2009	Oudejans, RRD; Nieuwenhuys, A	Perceiving and moving in sports and other high-pressure contexts	MIND AND MOTION: THE BIDIRECTIONAL LINK BETWEEN THOUGHT AND ACTION	From an ecological psychological perspective, the current chapter discusses the influence of anxiety on the perception, selection, and realization of affordances in sports and other high-pressure contexts, particularly police work. Drawing on recent developments in the anxiety-performance literature (i.e., the attentional control theory) the authors' experimental work on the impact of anxiety on perceptual-motor performance is described. Furthermore, several experiments showing positive effects of training with anxiety on performance under pressure are discussed. We argue that through reality-based training with anxiety, processes that underlie performance might be recalibrated to the new task constraints, thereby preventing a degradation of eventual performance in stressful situations.
591	ecological	2002	Young, MF; Depalma, A; Garrett, S	Situations, interaction, process and affordances: An ecological psychology perspective	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	From an ecological psychology perspective, a full analysis of any learning context must acknowledge the complex nonlinear dynamics that unfold as an intentionally-driven learner interacts with a technology-based purposefully designed learning environment. Further, a full analysis must avoid focusing only on the individual within the learning context and not accounting for the intentionality and constraining influence of the designer and the broader community. Finally, such an analysis must either pin down how learning and development can be driven by perception of the environment alone (detection of affordances), or alternatively from an ecological perspective, by a cyclical interaction of perception and action. This paper presents these parameters for any model of context or situation in relationship to the issues raised by Akhras and Self's (this issue) presentation on intelligent learning environments. We propose that a full situation model would need to incorporate constraints not only from the environment, but also from the individual and most precisely from the specific interaction at the moment of an occasion.
592	ecological	2000	Chemero, A	What events are	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Stoffregen's (this issue) target article reminds us of many things about affordances and events, but it also argues for points that cannot be maintained. In particular, Stoffregen argues that animals do not perceive events. This result, if it turned out to be true, would create widespread consequences for ecological psychology. I argue that Stoffregen is incorrect: We do perceive events. To see that this is the case, however, requires a new conceptualization of events in which events are not merely changes in the physical surrounds of an animal; instead, events are taken to be changes in the layout of affordances of the animal-environment system. Some consequences of this conception of affordances are sketched.
593	ecological	1999	McMorris, T	Cognitive development and the acquisition of decision-making skills	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	This paper sets out to examine what theory and research into cognitive development can tell tts about what types of decision-making skills we should teach at any given age. Piagetian, Information Processing, and ecological psychology theories of cognitive development ave discussed and empirical data is examined. It is concluded that, because of individual differences in the rare of cognitive development, if is not possible to provide definitive chronological ages at which different aspects of decision making should be taught. However it is recommended that the teaching of decision making should follow Piagetian stages regardless of chronological age, and that deliberate practice is beneficial to the development of decision making skills. It is also concluded, that there is a need for much move empirical research, particularly examining individual differences and the interaction between cognitive, socioemotional, and physical development. Finally, there is, also, a need for longitudinal studies and the use of research designs that ave ecologically valid.
594	ecological	1998	Summers, JJ	Has ecological psychology delivered what it promised?	MOTOR BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN SKILL: A MULTIDISCIPLINARY APPROACH	0
595	ecological	2013	Chemero, A	Radical Embodied Cognitive Science	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper briefly introduces radical embodied cognitive science (RECS) and places it in historical perspective. Radical embodied cognitive science is an interdisciplinary approach to psychology that combines ideas from the phenomenological tradition with ecological psychology and dynamical systems modeling. It is argued that radical embodied cognitive science has a long history; it is as a direct descendent of the Jamesian functionalist approach to psychology. This approach to psychology is contrasted with the current trend of supplementing standard cognitive psychology with occasional references to the body, in contrast with these trends, radical embodied cognitive science is skeptical of the explanatory usefulness of mental representations. The future prospects of radical embodied cognitive science and the broader functionalist framework are discussed.
596	ecological	2012	Reybrouck, M	Musical Sense-Making and the Concept of Affordance: An Ecosemiotic and Experiential Approach	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article is interdisciplinary in its claims. Evolving around the ecological concept of affordance, it brings together pragmatics and ecological psychology. Starting from the theoretical writings of Peirce, Dewey and James, the biosemiotic claims of von Uexkull, Gibson's ecological approach to perception and some empirical evidence from recent neurobiological research, it elaborates on the concepts of experiential and enactive cognition as applied to music. In order to provide an operational description of this approach, it introduces some conceptual tools from the domain of cybernetics with a major focus on the concept of circularity, which links perception to action in a continuous process of sense-making and interaction with the environment. As such, it is closely related to some pragmatic, biosemiotic and ecosemiotic claims which can be subsumed under the general notion of functional significance. An attempt is made to apply this conceptual framework to the process of musical sense-making which involves the realisation of systemic cognition in the context of epistemic interactions that are grounded in our biology and possibilities for adaptive control. Central in this approach is the concept of coping with the environment, or, in musical terms, to perceive the sounding music in terms of what it affords for the consummation of musical behaviour.
597	ecological	1997	Shaw, RE; Effken, JA; Fajen, BR; Garrett, SR; Morris, A	An ecological approach to the on-line assessment of problem-solving paths: Principles and applications	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	In this paper, we propose a theoretical framework for designing on-line situated assessment tools for multimedia instructional systems. Based on an ecological psychology approach to situated learning, a graph theoretic methodology is applied to monitor students' performance (solution paths) throughout the learning activity. Deviation of the student's path from the target (expert) path generates indicators which can function as alerts to the student and to the instructor. The information collected in the dribble files and presented visually enables the instructor to identify problems quickly and intervene appropriately. The feasibility of the methodology is explored in case studies describing three instructional systems that teach (1) critical thinking and problem-solving skills, (2) principles of hemodynamic monitoring and treatment, and (3) orthodontic treatment, respectively.
598	ecological	1995	DEJONG, HL	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND NATURALISM	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, Gibson's ecological approach to perception is discussed as belonging to the tradition of naturalist psychology, which focuses on the adaptive role of the perceptual system, and which includes (assumptions about) the structure of the ecological environment in theories of perception. As such, naturalism contrasts with the sensation-based tradition in perception, which is implicitly solipsist in ignoring the distal object, and restricts itself to local causal effects in the senses and subsequent cognitive processing. It is shown that Gibson's work shows traces of his contacts with Heider and Brunswik, and that Marr explicitly picks up (and sometimes criticizes) key elements of Gibson's work. Heider, Gibson and Marr are interpreted as naturalists in their emphasis on the role of the environment as a separate and irreducible level of explanation in theories of perception.
599	ecological	2008	Jayawickreme, E; Chemero, A	Ecological moral realism: An alternative theoretical framework for studying moral psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	The authors propose that the empirical study of human moral behavior as undertaken by positive psychologists, psychologists interested in the study of values, and experimental ethicists can be normative at its core, yet also remain truly scientific. To do this, those interested in the empirical study of human moral behavior should consider the concept of affordances, which is central to the Gibsonian ecological psychology tradition, as an approach to studying virtues and strengths. From this perspective, virtues can be better defined as part of moral analogues of affordances (MAAs). Just as the affordance "being-climbable" is a relation between climbing ability and height, so one can similarly define a MAA as an opportunity for moral behavior. Virtues, on this account, would be defined as abilities to behave appropriately in morally relevant situations. If one studies virtues as components of MAAs, virtues are only comprehensible in terms of morally relevant situations. Similarly, morally relevant situations are comprehensible only in terms of abilities to behave appropriately in them, that is, in terms of virtues. We believe that such an approach holds many advantages.
600	ecological	2005	Scott, MM	A powerful theory and a paradox - Ecological psychologists after barker	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	Roger Barker, influenced by Lewin, developed a powerful theory in psychology, behavior setting theory. Paradoxically, this theory is still not widely known or understood in mainstream American psychology. Oral histories of the core group who worked with Barker were collected and examined to determine influences on them and subsequent directions in the field of ecological psychology in an attempt to understand this paradox. Three clusters of factors emerged. Behavior setting theory has been affirmed in a number of places, including other behavioral sciences, but has not as yet moved into mainstream psychology, although there are some indications that the theory is moving in that direction. These directions as well as barriers are discussed.
601	embodied	2008	Barsalou, LW	Grounded cognition	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	Grounded cognition rejects traditional views that cognition is computation on amodal symbols in a modular system, independent of the brain's modal systems for perception, action, and introspection. Instead, grounded cognition proposes that modal simulations, bodily states, and situated action underlie cognition. Accumulating behavioral and neural evidence supporting this view is reviewed from research on perception, memory, knowledge, language, thought, social cognition, and development. Theories of grounded cognition are also reviewed, as are origins of the area and common misperceptions of it. Theoretical, empirical, and methodological issues are raised whose future treatment is likely to affect the growth and impact of grounded cognition.
602	embodied	2002	Wilson, M	Six views of embodied cognition	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	The emerging viewpoint of embodied cognition holds that cognitive processes are deeply rooted in the body's interactions with the world. This position actually houses a number of distinct claims, some of which are more controversial than others. This paper distinguishes and evaluates the following six claims: (1) cognition is situated; (2) cognition is time-pressured; (3) we off-load cognitive work onto the environment; (4) the environment is part of the cognitive system; (5) cognition is for action; (6) offline cognition is body based. Of these, the first three and the fifth appear to be at least partially true, and their usefulness is best evaluated in terms of the range of their applicability. The fourth claim, I argue, is deeply problematic. The sixth claim has received the least attention in the literature on embodied cognition, but it may in fact be the best documented and most powerful of the six claims.
603	embodied	2005	Niedenthal, PM; Barsalou, LW; Winkielman, P; Krauth-Gruber, S; Ric, F	Embodiment in attitudes, social perception, and emotion	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Findings in the social psychology literatures on attitudes, social perception, and emotion demonstrate that social information processing involves embodiment, where embodiment refers both to actual bodily states and to simulations of experience in the brain's modality-specific systems for perception, action, and introspection. We show that embodiment underlies social information processing when the perceiver interacts with actual social objects (online cognition) and when the perceiver represents social objects in their absence (offline cognition). Although many empirical demonstrations of social embodiment exist, no particularly compelling account of them has been offered. We propose that theories of embodied cognition, such as the Perceptual Symbol Systems (PSS) account (Barsalou, 1999), explain and integrate these findings, and that they also suggest exciting new directions for research. We compare the PSS account to a variety of related proposals and show how it addresses criticisms that have previously posed problems for the general embodiment approach.
604	embodied	2008	Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	A critical look at the embodied cognition hypothesis and a new proposal for grounding conceptual content	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	Many studies have demonstrated that the sensory and motor systems are activated during conceptual processing. Such results have been interpreted as indicating that concepts, and important aspects of cognition more broadly, are embodied. That conclusion does not follow from the empirical evidence. The reason why is that the empirical evidence can equally be accommodated by a 'disembodied' view of conceptual representation that makes explicit assumptions about spreading activation between the conceptual and sensory and motor systems. At the same time, the strong form of the embodied cognition hypothesis is at variance with currently available neuropsychological evidence. We suggest a middle ground between the embodied and disembodied cognition hypotheses - grounding by interaction. This hypothesis combines the view that concepts are, at some level, 'abstract' and 'symbolic', with the idea that sensory and motor information may 'instantiate' online conceptual processing. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
605	embodied	2010	Cisek, P; Kalaska, JF	Neural Mechanisms for Interacting with a World Full of Action Choices	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE, VOL 33	The neural bases of behavior are often discussed in terms of perceptual, cognitive, and motor stages, defined within an information processing framework that was originally inspired by models of human abstract problem solving. Here, we review a growing body of neurophysiological data that is difficult to reconcile with this influential theoretical perspective. As an alternative foundation for interpreting neural data, we consider frameworks borrowed from ethology, which emphasize the kinds of real-time interactive behaviors that animals have engaged in for millions of years. In particular, we discuss an ethologically-inspired view of interactive behavior as simultaneous processes that specify potential motor actions and select between them. We review how recent neurophysiological data from diverse cortical and subcortical regions appear more compatible with this parallel view than with the classical view of serial information processing stages.
606	embodied	2008	Schnall, S; Haidt, J; Clore, GL; Jordan, AH	Disgust as embodied moral judgment	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY BULLETIN	How, and for whom, does disgust influence moral judgment? In four experiments participants made moral judgments while experiencing extraneous feelings of disgust. Disgust was induced in Experiment 1 by exposure to a bad smell, in Experiment 2 by working in a disgusting room, in Experiment 3 by recalling a physically disgusting experience, and in Experiment 4 through a video induction. In each case, the results showed that disgust can increase the severity of moral judgments relative to controls. Experiment 4 found that disgust had a different effect on moral judgment than did sadness. In addition, Experiments 2-4 showed that the role of disgust in severity of moral judgments depends on participants' sensitivity to their own bodily sensations. Taken together, these data indicate the importance - and specificity - of gut feelings in moral judgments.
607	embodied	2001	Thelen, E; Schoner, G; Scheier, C; Smith, LB	The dynamics of embodiment: A field theory of infant perseverative reaching	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The overall goal of this target article is to demonstrate a mechanism for an embodied cognition. The particular vehicle is a much-studied, but still widely debated phenomenon seen in 7-12 month-old-infants. In Piaget's classic "A-not-B error," infants who have successfully uncovered a toy at location "A" continue to reach to that location even after they watch the toy hidden in a nearby location "B." Here, we question the traditional explanations of the error as an indicator of infants' concepts of objects or other static mental structures. Instead, we demonstrate that the A-not-B error and its previously puzzling contextual variations can be understood by the coupled dynamics of the ordinary processes of goal-directed actions: looking, planning, reaching, and remembering. We offer a formal dynamic theory and model based on cognitive embodiment that both simulates the known A-not-B effects and offers novel predictions that match new experimental results. The demonstration supports an embodied view by casting the mental events involved in perception, planning, deciding, and remembering in the same analogic dynamic language as that used to describe bodily movement, so that they may be continuously meshed. We maintain that this mesh is a pre-eminently cognitive act of "knowing" not only in infancy but also in everyday activities throughout the life span.
608	embodied	2006	Decety, J; Grezes, J	The power of simulation: Imagining one's own and other's behavior	BRAIN RESEARCH	A large number of cognitive neuroscience studies point to the similarities in the neural circuits activated during the generation, imagination, as well as observation of one's own and other's behavior. Such findings support the shared representations account of social cognition, which is suggested to provide the basic mechanism for social interaction. Mental simulation may also be a representational tool to understand the self and others. However, successfully navigating these shared representations - both within oneself and between individuals - constitutes an essential functional property of any autonomous agent. It will be argued that self-awareness and agency, mediated by the temporoparietal (TPJ) area and the prefrontal cortex, are critical aspects of the social mind. Thus, differences as well as similarities between self and other representations at the neural level may be related to the degrees of self-awareness and agency. Overall, these data support the view that social cognition draws on both domain-general mechanisms and domain-specific embodied representations. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
609	embodied	2008	Casasanto, D; Boroditsky, L	Time in the mind: Using space to think about time	COGNITION	How do we construct abstract ideas like justice, mathematics, or time-travel? In this paper we investigate whether mental representations that result from physical experience underlie people's more abstract mental representations, using the domains of space and time as a test-bed. People often talk about time using spatial language (e.g., a long vacation, a short concert). Do people also think about time using spatial representations, even when they are not using language? Results of six psychophysical experiments revealed that people are unable to ignore irrelevant spatial information when making judgments about duration, but not the converse. This pattern, which is predicted by the asymmetry between space and time in linguistic metaphors, was demonstrated here in tasks that do not involve any linguistic stimuli or responses. These findings provide evidence that the metaphorical relationship between space and time observed in language also exists in our more basic representations of distance and duration. Results suggest that our mental representations of things we can never see or touch may be built, in part, out of representations of physical experiences in perception and motor action. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
610	embodied	2008	Fischer, MH; Zwaan, RA	Embodied language: A review of the role of the motor system in language comprehension	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	A growing body of research suggests that comprehending verbal descriptions of actions relies on an internal simulation of the described action. To assess this motor resonance account of language comprehension, we first review recent developments in the literature on perception and action, with a view towards language processing. We then examine studies of language processing from an action simulation perspective. We conclude by discussing several criteria that might be helpful with regard to assessing the role of motor resonance during language comprehension.
611	embodied	2006	Zwaan, RA; Taylor, LJ	Seeing, acting, understanding: Motor resonance in language comprehension	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Observing actions and understanding sentences about actions activates corresponding motor processes in the observer-comprehender. In 5 experiments, the authors addressed 2 novel questions regarding language-based motor resonance. The 1st question asks whether visual motion that is associated with an action produces motor resonance in sentence comprehension. The 2nd question asks whether motor resonance is modulated during sentence comprehension. The authors' experiments provide an affirmative response to both questions. A rotating visual stimulus affects both actual manual rotation and the comprehension of manual rotation sentences. Motor resonance is modulated by the linguistic input and is a rather immediate and localized phenomenon. The results are discussed in the context of theories of action observation and mental simulation.
612	embodied	2009	Hofmann, W; Friese, M; Strack, F	Impulse and Self-Control From a Dual-Systems Perspective	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Though human beings embody a unique ability for planned behavior, they also often act impulsively. This insight may be important for the study of self-control situations in which people are torn between their long-term goals to restrain behavior and their immediate impulses that promise hedonic fulfillment. In the present article, we outline a dual-systems perspective of impulse and self-control and suggest a framework for the prediction of self-control outcomes. This framework combines three elements that, considered jointly, may enable a more precise prediction of self-control outcomes than they do when studied in isolation: impulsive precursors of behavior, reflective precursors, and situational or dispositional boundary conditions. The theoretical and practical utility of such an approach is demonstrated by drawing on recent evidence from several domains of self-control such as eating, drinking, and sexual behavior.
613	embodied	2009	Hickok, G	Eight Problems for the Mirror Neuron Theory of Action Understanding in Monkeys and Humans	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The discovery of mirror neurons in macaque frontal cortex has sparked a resurgence of interest in motor/embodied theories of cognition. This critical review examines the evidence in support of one of these theories, namely, that mirror neurons provide the basis of action understanding. It is argued that there is no evidence from monkey data that directly tests this theory, and evidence from humans makes a strong case against the position.
614	embodied	2001	Thompson, E; Varela, FJ	Radical embodiment: neural dynamics and consciousness	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	We propose a new approach to the neuroscience of consciousness, growing out of the 'enactive' viewpoint in cognitive science. This approach aims to map the neural substrates of consciousness at the level of large-scale, emergent and transient dynamical patterns of brain activity (rather than at the level of particular circuits or classes of neurons), and it suggests that the processes crucial for consciousness cut across the brain-body-world divisions, rather than being brain-bound neural events. Whereas standard approaches to the neural correlates of consciousness have assumed a one-way causal-explanatory relationship between internal neural representational systems and the contents of consciousness, our approach allows for theories and hypotheses about the two-way or reciprocal relationship between embodied conscious states and local neuronal activity.
615	embodied	2003	Anderson, ML	Embodied cognition: A field guide	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The nature of cognition is being re-considered. Instead of emphasizing formal operations on abstract symbols, the new approach foregrounds the fact that cognition is, rather, a situated activity, and suggests that thinking beings ought therefore be considered first and foremost as acting beings. The essay reviews recent work in Embodied Cognition, provides a concise guide to its principles, attitudes and goals, and identifies the physical grounding project as its central research focus. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
616	embodied	2010	Anderson, ML	Neural reuse: A fundamental organizational principle of the brain	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	An emerging class of theories concerning the functional structure of the brain takes the reuse of neural circuitry for various cognitive purposes to be a central organizational principle. According to these theories, it is quite common for neural circuits established for one purpose to be exapted (exploited, recycled, redeployed) during evolution or normal development, and be put to different uses, often without losing their original functions. Neural reuse theories thus differ from the usual understanding of the role of neural plasticity (which is, after all, a kind of reuse) in brain organization along the following lines: According to neural reuse, circuits can continue to acquire new uses after an initial or original function is established; the acquisition of new uses need not involve unusual circumstances such as injury or loss of established function; and the acquisition of a new use need not involve (much) local change to circuit structure (e.g., it might involve only the establishment of functional connections to new neural partners). Thus, neural reuse theories offer a distinct perspective on several topics of general interest, Such as: the evolution and development of the brain, including (for instance) the evolutionary-developmental pathway supporting primate tool use and human language; the degree of modularity in brain organization; the degree of localization of cognitive function; and the cortical parcellation problem and the prospects (and proper methods to employ) for function to structure mapping. The idea also has some practical implications in the areas of rehabilitative medicine and machine interface design.
617	embodied	2005	Schubert, TW	Your highness: Vertical positions as perceptual symbols of power	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Metaphorically, power equals up. Drawing on embodied theories of cognition, the author argues that thinking about power involves mental simulation of space and can be interfered with by perception of vertical differences. Study 1 assessed image schemas for power and found a shared vertical difference metaphor. Studies 2, 3, and 4 showed that the judgment of a group's power is influenced by the group's vertical position in space and motor responses implying vertical movement. Study 5 ruled out that the influence of vertical position on power judgments is driven by valence differences. Study 6 showed that vertical position also influences the power judgment result itself. The evidence suggests that the concept of power is partly represented in perceptual form as vertical difference.
618	embodied	2000	McIntosh, AR	Towards a network theory of cognition	NEURAL NETWORKS	For cognitive neuroscience to go forward a more explicit effort is needed to use neurophysiology to constrain how the brain produces human mental functions. This review begins with the suggestion that two fundamental features may be critical for this effort. The first is the connectivity of the brain, which occupies an intermediate position between complete redundant interconnections and independence. The term semiconnected is presented as a designation, which is an obvious derivation of the term semiconductors as used in engineering. The second is transient response plasticity where a given neuron or collection of neurons may show rapid changes in response characteristics depending on experience. Response plasticity is a ubiquitous property of the brain rather than a unique characteristic of "neurocognitive" regions. These two properties may be brought together when brain areas interact such that their aggregate function embodies cognition. Three examples are used to illustrate these general principles and to develop the idea that a particular region in isolation may not act as a reliable index for a particular cognitive function. Instead, the neural context in which an area is active may define the cognitive function. Neural context emphasizes that the particular spatiotemporal pattern of neural interactions may hold the key to bridge between brain and mind. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
619	embodied	2001	Schubert, T; Friedmann, F; Regenbrecht, H	The experience of presence: Factor analytic insights	PRESENCE-TELEOPERATORS AND VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS	Within an embodied cognition framework, it is argued that presence in a virtual environment (VE) develops from the construction of a spatial-functional mental model of the VE. Two cognitive processes lead to this model: the representation of bodily actions as possible actions in the VE, and the suppression of incompatible sensory input. It is hypothesized that the conscious sense of presence reflects these two components as spatial presence and involvement. This prediction was confirmed in two studies (N = 246 and N = 296) assessing self-reports of presence and immersion experiences. Additionally, judgments of "realness" were observed as a third presence component. A second-order factor analysis showed a distinction between presence, immersion, and interaction factors. Building on these results, a thirteen-item presence scale consisting of three independent components was developed and verified using confirmatory factor analyses across the two studies.
620	embodied	2000	Beer, RD	Dynamical approaches to cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Dynamical ideas are beginning to have a major impact on cognitive science, from foundational debates to daily practice. In this article, I review three contrasting examples of work in this area that address the lexical and grammatical structure of language, Piaget's classic "A-not-B' error, and active categorical perception in an embodied, situated agent. From these three examples, I then attempt to articulate the major differences between dynamical approaches and more traditional symbolic and connectionist approaches. Although the three models reviewed here vary considerable in their details, they share a focus on the unfolding trajectory of a system's state and the internal and external forces that shape this trajectory, rather than the representational content of its constituent states or the underlying physical mechanism that instantiate the dynamics. In some work, this dynamical viewpoint is augmented with a situated and embodied perspective on cognition, forming a promising unified theoretical framework for cognitive science broadly construed.
621	embodied	2010	De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E; Gallagher, S	Can social interaction constitute social cognition?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	An important shift is taking place in social cognition research, away from a focus on the individual mind and toward embodied and participatory aspects of social understanding. Empirical results already imply that social cognition is not reducible to the workings of individual cognitive mechanisms. To galvanize this interactive turn, we provide an operational definition of social interaction and distinguish the different explanatory roles contextual, enabling and constitutive it can play in social cognition. We show that interactive processes are more than a context for social cognition: they can complement and even replace individual mechanisms. This new explanatory power of social interaction can push the field forward by expanding the possibilities of scientific explanation beyond the individual.
622	embodied	2002	Altmann, EM; Trafton, JG	Memory for goals: an activation-based model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Goal-directed cognition is often discussed in terms of specialized memory structures like the "goal stack." The goal-activation model presented here analyzes goal-directed cognition in terms of the general memory constructs of activation and associative priming. The model embodies three predictive constraints: (1) the interference level, which arises from residual memory for old goals; (1) the strengthening constraint, which makes predictions about time to encode a new goal: and (3) the priming constraint, which makes predictions about the role of cues in retrieving pending goals. These constraints are formulated algebraically and tested through simulation of latency and error data from the Tower of Hanoi, a means-ends puzzle that depends heavily on suspension and resumption of goals. Implications of the model for understanding intention superiority, postcompletion error. and effects of task interruption are discussed. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
623	embodied	2007	Freedberg, D; Gallese, V	Motion, emotion and empathy in esthetic experience	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The implications of the discovery of mirroring mechanisms and embodied simulation for empathetic responses to images in general, and to works of visual art in particular, have not yet been assessed. Here, we address this issue and we challenge the primacy of cognition in responses to art. We propose that a crucial element of esthetic response consists of the activation of embodied mechanisms encompassing the simulation of actions, emotions and corporeal sensation, and that these mechanisms are universal. This basic level of reaction to images is essential to understanding the effectiveness both of everyday images and of works of art. Historical, cultural and other contextual factors do not preclude the importance of considering the neural processes that arise in the empathetic understanding of visual artworks.
624	embodied	2007	Goodwin, C	Participation, stance and affect in the organization of activities	DISCOURSE & SOCIETY	The organization of embodied participation frameworks, stance and affect is investigated using as data a sequence in which a father is helping his daughter do homework. Through the way in which they position their bodies toward both each other and the homework sheet that is the focus of their work the two contest the interactive and cognitive organization of the activity they are pursuing together. The father insisted that their work be organized in a way that would allow him to demonstrate the practices required to solve her problems. However the daughter refused to rearrange her body to organize the participation framework that would make this possible, and demanded instead that Father tell her the answers. When the daughter consistently refused to cooperate Father eventually walked out, but returned later, and they constructed a very different affective and cognitive alignment. Such phenomena shed light on range of different kinds of epistemic, moral and affective stances that are central to both the organization of cognition and action, and to how participants constitute themselves as particular kinds of social and moral actors in the midst of the mundane activities that constitute daily family life.
625	embodied	2010	Landau, MJ; Meier, BP; Keefer, LA	A Metaphor-Enriched Social Cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Social cognition is the scientific study of the cognitive events underlying social thought and attitudes. Currently, the field's prevailing theoretical perspectives are the traditional schema view and embodied cognition theories. Despite important differences, these perspectives share the seemingly uncontroversial notion that people interpret and evaluate a given social stimulus using knowledge about similar stimuli. However, research in cognitive linguistics (e.g., Lakoff & Johnson, 1980) suggests that people construe the world in large part through conceptual metaphors, which enable them to understand abstract concepts using knowledge of superficially dissimilar, typically more concrete concepts. Drawing on these perspectives, we propose that social cognition can and should be enriched by an explicit recognition that conceptual metaphor is a unique cognitive mechanism that shapes social thought and attitudes. To advance this metaphor-enriched perspective, we introduce the metaphoric transfer strategy as a means of empirically assessing whether metaphors influence social information processing in ways that are distinct from the operation of schemas alone. We then distinguish conceptual metaphor from embodied simulation the mechanism posited by embodied cognition theories and introduce the alternate source strategy as a means of empirically teasing apart these mechanisms. Throughout, we buttress our claims with empirical evidence of the influence of metaphors on a wide range of social psychological phenomena. We outline directions for future research on the strength and direction of metaphor use in social information processing. Finally, we mention specific benefits of a metaphor-enriched perspective for integrating and generating social cognitive research and for bridging social cognition with neighboring fields.
626	embodied	2008	Zhong, CB; Leonardelli, GJ	Cold and Lonely Does Social Exclusion Literally Feel Cold?	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Metaphors such as icy stare depict social exclusion using cold-related concepts; they are not to be taken literally and certainly do not imply reduced temperature. Two experiments, however, revealed that social exclusion literally feels cold. Experiment 1 found that participants who recalled a social exclusion experience gave lower estimates of room temperature than did participants who recalled an inclusion experience. In Experiment 2, social exclusion was directly induced through an on-line virtual interaction, and participants who were excluded reported greater desire for warm food and drink than did participants who were included. These findings are consistent with the embodied view of cognition and support the notion that social perception involves physical and perceptual content. The psychological experience of coldness not only aids understanding of social interaction, but also is an integral part of the experience of social exclusion.
627	embodied	2006	Nunez, RE; Sweetser, E	With the future behind them: Convergent evidence from Aymara language and gesture in the crosslinguistic comparison of spatial construals of time	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive research on metaphoric concepts of time has focused on differences between moving Ego and moving time models, but even more basic is the contrast between Ego- and temporal-reference-point models. Dynamic models appear to be quasi-universal cross-culturally, as does the generalization that in Ego-reference-point models, FUTURE IS IN FRONT OF EGO and PAST IS IN BACK OF EGO. The Aymara language instead has a major static model of time wherein FUTURE IS BEHIND EGO and PAST IS IN FRONT OF EGO; linguistic and gestural data give strong confirmation of this unusual culture-specific cognitive pattern. Gestural data provide crucial information unavailable to purely linguistic analysis, suggesting that when investigating conceptual systems both forms of expression should be analyzed complementarily. Important issues in embodied cognition are raised: how fully shared are bodily grounded motivations for universal cognitive patterns, what makes a rare pattern emerge, and what are the cultural entailments of such patterns?
628	embodied	2009	Casasanto, D	Embodiment of Abstract Concepts: Good and Bad in Right- and Left-Handers	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Do people with different kinds of bodies think differently? According to the body-specificity hypothesis, people who interact with their physical environments in systematically different ways should form correspondingly different mental representations. In a test of this hypothesis, 5 experiments investigated links between handedness and the mental representation of abstract concepts with positive or negative valence (e.g., honesty, sadness, intelligence). Mappings from spatial location to emotional valence differed between right- and left-handed participants. Right-handers tended to associate rightward space with positive ideas and leftward space with negative ideas, but left-handers showed the opposite pattern, associating rightward space with negative ideas and leftward with positive ideas. These contrasting mental metaphors for valence cannot be attributed to linguistic experience, because idioms in English associate good with right but not with left. Rather, right- and left-handers implicitly associated positive valence more strongly with the side of space on which they could act more fluently with their dominant hands. These results support the body-specificity hypothesis and provide evidence for the perceptuomotor basis of even the most abstract ideas.
629	embodied	2009	Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	Concepts and Categories: A Cognitive Neuropsychological Perspective	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	One of the most provocative and exciting issues in cognitive science is how neural specificity for semantic categories of common objects arises in the functional architecture of the brain. More than two decades of research on the neuropsychological phenomenon of category-specific semantic deficits has generated detailed claims about the organization and representation of conceptual knowledge. More recently, researchers have sought to test hypotheses developed on the basis of neuropsychological evidence with functional imaging. From those two fields, the empirical generalization emerges that object domain and sensory modality jointly constrain the organization of knowledge in the brain. At the same time, research within the embodied cognition framework has highlighted the need to articulate how information is communicated between the sensory and motor systems, and processes that represent and generalize abstract information. Those developments point toward a new approach for understanding category specificity in terms of the coordinated influences of diverse regions and cognitive systems.
630	embodied	2008	Hostetter, AB; Alibali, MW	Visible embodiment: Gestures as simulated action	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Spontaneous gestures that accompany speech are related to both verbal and spatial processes. We argue that gestures emerge from perceptual and motor simulations that underlie embodied language and mental imagery. We first review current thinking about embodied cognition, embodied language, and embodied mental imagery. We then provide evidence that gestures stem from spatial representations and mental images. We then propose the gestures-as-simulated-action framework to explain how gestures might arise from an embodied cognitive system. Finally, we compare this framework with other current models of gesture production, and we briefly outline predictions that derive from the framework.
631	embodied	1999	Bauer, MW; Gaskell, G	Towards a paradigm for research on social representations	JOURNAL FOR THE THEORY OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR	Based on Moscovici's (1961) classical study on the cultivation of psychoanalytic ideas in France in the 1950's and our own research on modern biotechnology, we propose a paradigm for researching social representations. Following a consideration of the nature of representations and of the 'iconoclastic suspicion' that haunts them, we propose a model of the emergence of meaning relating three elements: subjects, objects, and projects. The basic unit of analysis is the elongated triangle of mediation (SOPS): subject 1, object, project, and subject 2, captured in the image of a 'Toblerone'. Such social units cultivate, that is produce, circulate and receive representation which may be embodied in four modes-habitual behaviour, individual cognition, informal communication and formal communication-and in three mediums-words, visual images or nonlinguistic sounds. We propose an operational definition of a 'social representation' as the comparison of four characteristics of communication systems: the content structures (anchorings and objectifications; core and peripheral elements), the typified processes (diffusion, propagation, propaganda etc.), and their functions (identity, attitude, opinion, resistance, ideology etc.), within the context of segmented social milieus. Seven implications for research on social representations are outlined: (1) content and process; (2) segmentation by social milieus rather than taxonomies; (3) cultivation studies within social milieus; (4) multi-method (mode and medium) analysis; (5) time structures and longitudinal data; (6) the crossover of cultural projects and trajectories; (7) the disinterested research attitude. This ideal type paradigm leads to an operational clarification to identify new research questions, and to guide the design and evaluation of studies on social representations.
632	embodied	1995	Haxby, JV; Ungerleider, LG; Horwitz, B; Rapoport, SI; Grady, CL	Hemispheric differences in neural systems for face working memory: A PET-rCBF study	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	Neural systems that participate in working memory for faces were investigated in an experiment designed to distinguish face perception areas from working memory areas. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured using positron emission tomography (PET) while subjects performed a sensorimotor control task, a face perception control task, and five working memory tasks with parametrically varied retention intervals, ranging from 1 to 21 sec. Striate and ventral occipitotemporal extrastriate areas demonstrated a simple negative correlation between rCBF and retention delay, indicating that these areas participate principally in perceptual operations performed during visual stimulation. By contrast, right and left frontal areas demonstrated rCBF increases that were significantly more sustained across delays than were increases in ventral extrastriate areas, but the relation between rCBF and retention interval differed significantly by hemisphere. Whereas right frontal rCBF showed a nonsignificant tendency to diminish at longer delays, left inferior frontal, middle frontal, and anterior cingulate cortex, as well as left parietal and inferior temporal cortex, demonstrated their largest rCBF increases at the longest delays. These results indicate that right frontal and left frontal, parietal, and temporal areas all participate in face working memory, but that left hemisphere areas are associated with a more durable working memory representation or strategy that subjects rely on increasingly with longer retention intervals. One possible explanation for this hemispheric difference is that left hemisphere activity is associated with a face representation that embodies the results of more analysis and elaboration, whereas right frontal activity is associated with a simpler, icon-like image of a face that is harder to maintain in working memory. (C) 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.*
633	embodied	2007	Willems, RM; Hagoort, P	Neural evidence for the interplay between language, gesture, and action: A review	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Co-speech gestures embody a form of manual action that is tightly coupled to the language system. As such, the co-occurrence of speech and co-speech gestures is an excellent example of the interplay between language and action. There are, however, other ways in which language and action can be thought of as closely related. In this paper we will give an overview of studies in cognitive neuroscience that examine the neural underpinnings of links between language and action. Topics include neurocognitive studies of motor representations of speech sounds, action-related language, sign language and co-speech gestures. It will be concluded that there is strong evidence on the interaction between speech and gestures in the brain. This interaction however shares general properties with other domains in which there is interplay between language and action. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
634	embodied	2011	Gallese, V; Sinigaglia, C	What is so special about embodied simulation?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Simulation theories of social cognition abound in the literature, but it is often unclear what simulation means and how it works. The discovery of mirror neurons, responding both to action execution and observation, suggested an embodied approach to mental simulation. Over the past few years this approach has been hotly debated and alternative accounts have been proposed. We discuss these accounts and argue that they fail to capture the uniqueness of embodied simulation (ES). ES theory provides a unitary account of basic social cognition, demonstrating that people reuse their own mental states or processes represented with a bodily format in functionally attributing them to others.
635	embodied	2004	Inamura, T; Toshima, I; Tanie, H; Nakamura, Y	Embodied symbol emergence based on mimesis theory	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ROBOTICS RESEARCH	"Mimesis" theoryfocused in the cognitive science field and "mirror neurons" found in the biology field show that the behavior generation process is not independent of the behavior cognition process. The generation and cognition processes have a close relationship with each other. During the behavioral imitation period, a human being does not practice simple joint coordinate transformation, but will acknowledge the parents' behavior. It understands the behavior after abstraction as symbols, and will generate its self-behavior. Focusing on these facts, we propose a new method which carries out the behavior cognition and behavior generation processes at the same time. We also propose a mathematical model based on hidden Markov models in order to integrate four abilities: (1) symbol emergence; (2) behavior recognition; (3) self-behavior generation; (4) acquiring the motion primitives. Finally, the feasibility of this method is shown through several experiments on a humanoid robot.
636	embodied	2010	Niedenthal, PM; Mermillod, M; Maringer, M; Hess, U	The Simulation of Smiles (SIMS) model: Embodied simulation and the meaning of facial expression	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Recent application of theories of embodied or grounded cognition to the recognition and interpretation of facial expression of emotion has led to an explosion of research in psychology and the neurosciences. However, despite the accelerating number of reported findings, it remains unclear how the many component processes of emotion and their neural mechanisms actually support embodied simulation. Equally unclear is what triggers the use of embodied simulation versus perceptual or conceptual strategies in determining meaning. The present article integrates behavioral research from social psychology with recent research in neurosciences in order to provide coherence to the extant and future research on this topic. The roles of several of the brain's reward systems, and the amygdala, somatosensory cortices, and motor centers are examined. These are then linked to behavioral and brain research on facial mimicry and eye gaze. Articulation of the mediators and moderators of facial mimicry and gaze are particularly useful in guiding interpretation of relevant findings from neurosciences. Finally, a model of the processing of the smile, the most complex of the facial expressions, is presented as a means to illustrate how to advance the application of theories of embodied cognition in the study of facial expression of emotion.
637	embodied	2005	Markman, AB; Brendl, CM	Constraining theories of embodied cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Influences of perceptual and motor activity on evaluation have led to theories of embodied cognition suggesting that putatively complex judgments call be carried out using only perceptual and motor representations. We present an experiment that revisited a movement-compatibility effect in which people are faster to respond to positive words by pulling a lever than by pushing a lever and tire faster to respond to negative words by pushing than by pulling. We demonstrate that the compatibility effect depends on people's representation of their selves in space rather than on their physical location. These data suggest that accounting for embodied phenomena requires and understanding the complex interplay between perceptual and motor representations and people's representations of their selves in space.
638	embodied	2006	Gallese, V	Intentional attunement: A neurophysiological perspective on social cognition and its disruption in autism	BRAIN RESEARCH	A direct form of experiential understanding of others, "intentional attunement", is achieved by modeling their behavior as intentional experiences on the basis of the activation of shared neural systems underpinning what the others do and feel and what we do and feel. This modeling mechanism is embodied simulation in parallel with the detached sensory description of the observed social stimuli, internal representations of the body states associated with actions, emotions, and sensations are evoked in the observer, as if he/she would be doing a similar action or experiencing a similar emotion or sensation. Mirror neuron systems are likely the neural correlate of this mechanism. By means of a shared neural state realized in two different bodies, the "objectual other" becomes "another self". A defective intentional attunement caused by a lack of embodied simulation might cause some of the social impairments of autistic individuals. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
639	embodied	2008	Kemmerer, D; Castillo, JG; Talavage, T; Patterson, S; Wiley, C	Neuroanatomical distribution of five semantic components of verbs: Evidence from fMRI	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The Simulation Framework, also known as the Embodied Cognition Framework, maintains that conceptual knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor systems. To test several predictions that this theory makes about the neural substrates of verb meanings; we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scan subjects' brains while they made semantic judgments involving five classes of verbs-specifically, Running verbs (e.g., run, jog, walk), Speaking verbs (e.g., shout, mumble, whisper), Hitting verbs (e.g., hit, poke, jab), Cutting verbs (e.g., cut, slice, hack), and Change of State verbs (e.g., shatter, smash, crack). These classes were selected because they vary with respect to the presence or absence of five distinct semantic components-specifically, ACTION; MOTION, CONTACT, CHANGE OF STATE, and TOOL USE. Based on the Simulation Framework, we hypothesized that the ACTION component depends on the primary motor and premotor cortices, that the MOTION component depends on the posterolateral temporal cortex, that the CONTACT component depends on the intraparietal sulcus and inferior parietal lobule, that the CHANGE OF STATE component depends on the ventral temporal cortex, and that the TOOL USE component depends on a distributed network of temporal, parietal, and frontal regions. Virtually all of the predictions were confirmed. Taken together, these findings support the Simulation Framework and extend our understanding of the neuroanatomical distribution of different aspects of verb meaning. Published by Elsevier Inc.
640	embodied	2006	Fishbach, A; Shah, JY	Self-control in action: Implicit dispositions toward goals and away from temptations	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Five studies examined whether, in self-control dilemmas, individuals develop an implicit disposition to approach goals and avoid temptations, psychologically as well as physically. Using a method developed by A. K. Solarz (1960; see also K. L. Duckworth, J. A. Bargh, M. Garcia, & S. Chaiken, 2002), the authors assessed the time for pulling and pushing a lever in response to goal- and temptation-related stimuli (e.g., studying and partying). The results show that individuals offset the influence of tempting activities by automatically avoiding these stimuli (faster pushing responses) and by approaching stimuli related to an overarching goal (faster pulling responses). These implicit self-control dispositions varied as a function of the magnitude of the self-control conflict, itself defined by how strongly individuals were attracted to temptations and held the longer term goal. These dispositions were further shown to play a role in successful self-control.
641	embodied	2009	Raposo, A; Moss, HE; Stamatakis, EA; Tyler, LK	Modulation of motor and premotor cortices by actions, action words and action sentences	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Recent research has indicated that processing different kinds of action verbs, such as those related to arm or leg movements (e.g. grab, kick), engages regions along the motor strip responsible for the execution of the corresponding actions. It has been proposed that this activation reflects action-related meaning and that these regions are automatically triggered whenever action words are encountered. However, this view is not universally shared by cognitive studies that have shown that the representation of verbs is highly dependent on the interactions with the semantic context. We investigated these views in a set of fMRI studies, in which participants performed a movement localiser task and listened to arm- and leg-related verbs that were presented in isolation (e.g. kick), in literal sentences (as in kick the ball) and idiomatic sentences (as in kick the bucket). We found significant activation in motor regions when action verbs were presented in isolation, and, to a lesser extent, in literal sentential contexts. When the same verbs were presented in idiomatic contexts, activation was found in fronto-temporal regions, associated with language processing, but not in motor and premotor cortices. These results suggest that motor responses were context-dependent, rather than automatic and invariable. These findings lend support to cognitive theories of semantic flexibility, by showing that the nature of the semantic context determines the degree to which alternative senses and particularly relevant features are processed when a word is heard. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
642	embodied	2007	Oberman, LM; Winklelman, P; Ramachandran, VS	Face to face: Blocking facial mimicry can selectively impair recognition of emotional expressions	SOCIAL NEUROSCIENCE	People spontaneously mimic a variety of behaviors, including emotional facial expressions. Embodied cognition theories suggest that mimicry reflects internal simulation of perceived emotion in order to facilitate its understanding. If so, blocking facial mimicry should impair recognition of expressions, especially of emotions that are simulated using facial musculature. The current research tested this hypothesis using four expressions (happy, disgust, fear, and sad) and two mimicry-interfering manipulations (1) biting on a pen and (2) chewing gum, as well as two control conditions. Experiment 1 used electromyography over cheek, mouth, and nose regions. The bite manipulation consistently activated assessed muscles, whereas the chew manipulation activated muscles only intermittently. Further, expressing happiness generated most facial action. Experiment 2 found that the bite manipulation interfered most with recognition of happiness. These findings suggest that facial mimicry differentially contributes to recognition of specific facial expressions, thus allowing for more refined predictions from embodied cognition theories.
643	embodied	2008	Hurley, S; Clark, A; Kiverstein, J	The shared circuits model (SCM): How control, mirroring, and simulation can enable imitation, deliberation, and mindreading	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Imitation, deliberation, and mindreading are characteristically human sociocognitive skills. Research on imitation and its role in social cognition is flourishing across various disciplines. Imitation is surveyed in this target article under headings of behavior, subpersonal mechanisms, and functions of imitation. A model is then advanced within which many of the developments surveyed can be located and explained. The shared circuits model (SCM) explains how imitation, deliberation, and mindreading can be enabled by subpersonal mechanisms of control, mirroring, and simulation. It is cast at a middle, functional level of description, that is, between the level of neural implementation and the level of conscious perceptions and intentional actions. The SCM connects shared informational dynamics for perception and action with shared informational dynamics for self and other, while also showing how the action/perception, self/other, and actual/possible distinctions can be overlaid on these shared informational dynamics. It avoids the common conception of perception and action as separate and peripheral to central cognition. Rather, it contributes to the situated cognition movement by showing how mechanisms for perceiving action can be built on those for active perception.
644	embodied	2010	Barsalou, LW	Grounded Cognition: Past, Present, and Future	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Thirty years ago, grounded cognition had roots in philosophy, perception, cognitive linguistics, psycholinguistics, cognitive psychology, and cognitive neuropsychology. During the next 20 years, grounded cognition continued developing in these areas, and it also took new forms in robotics, cognitive ecology, cognitive neuroscience, and developmental psychology. In the past 10 years, research on grounded cognition has grown rapidly, especially in cognitive neuroscience, social neuroscience, cognitive psychology, social psychology, and developmental psychology. Currently, grounded cognition appears to be achieving increased acceptance throughout cognitive science, shifting from relatively minor status to increasing importance. Nevertheless, researchers wonder whether grounded mechanisms lie at the heart of the cognitive system or are peripheral to classic symbolic mechanisms. Although grounded cognition is currently dominated by demonstration experiments in the absence of well-developed theories, the area is likely to become increasingly theory driven over the next 30 years. Another likely development is the increased incorporation of grounding mechanisms into cognitive architectures and into accounts of classic cognitive phenomena. As this incorporation occurs, much functionality of these architectures and phenomena is likely to remain, along with many original mechanisms. Future theories of grounded cognition are likely to be heavily influenced by both cognitive neuroscience and social neuroscience, and also by developmental science and robotics. Aspects from the three major perspectives in cognitive science-classic symbolic architectures, statistical/dynamical systems, and grounded cognition-will probably be integrated increasingly in future theories, each capturing indispensable aspects of intelligence.
645	embodied	2010	Lombardo, MV; Chakrabarti, B; Bullmore, ET; Sadek, SA; Pasco, G; Wheelwright, SJ; Suckling, J; Baron-Cohen, S	Atypical neural self-representation in autism	BRAIN	The 'self' is a complex multidimensional construct deeply embedded and in many ways defined by our relations with the social world. Individuals with autism are impaired in both self-referential and other-referential social cognitive processing. Atypical neural representation of the self may be a key to understanding the nature of such impairments. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging we scanned adult males with an autism spectrum condition and age and IQ-matched neurotypical males while they made reflective mentalizing or physical judgements about themselves or the British Queen. Neurotypical individuals preferentially recruit the middle cingulate cortex and ventromedial prefrontal cortex in response to self compared with other-referential processing. In autism, ventromedial prefrontal cortex responded equally to self and other, while middle cingulate cortex responded more to other-mentalizing than self-mentalizing. These atypical responses occur only in areas where self-information is preferentially processed and does not affect areas that preferentially respond to other-referential information. In autism, atypical neural self-representation was also apparent via reduced functional connectivity between ventromedial prefrontal cortex and areas associated with lower level embodied representations, such as ventral premotor and somatosensory cortex. Furthermore, the magnitude of neural self-other distinction in ventromedial prefrontal cortex was strongly related to the magnitude of early childhood social impairments in autism. Individuals whose ventromedial prefrontal cortex made the largest distinction between mentalizing about self and other were least socially impaired in early childhood, while those whose ventromedial prefrontal cortex made little to no distinction between mentalizing about self and other were the most socially impaired in early childhood. These observations reveal that the atypical organization of neural circuitry preferentially coding for self-information is a key mechanism at the heart of both self-referential and social impairments in autism.
646	embodied	2009	Niedenthal, PM; Mondillon, L; Winkielman, P; Vermeulen, N	Embodiment of Emotion Concepts	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Theories of embodied cognition hold that higher cognitive processes operate on perceptual symbols and that concept use involves partial reactivations of the sensory-motor states that occur during experience with the world. On this view, the processing of emotion knowledge involves a (partial) reexperience of an emotion, but only when access to the sensory basis of emotion knowledge is required by the task. In 2 experiments, participants judged emotional and neutral concepts corresponding to concrete objects (Experiment 1) and abstract states (Experiment 2) while facial electromyographic activity was recorded from the cheek, brow, eye, and nose regions. Results of both studies show embodiment of specific emotions in an emotion-focused but not a perceptual-focused processing task on the same words. A follow up in Experiment 3, which blocked selective facial expressions, suggests a causal, rather than simply a correlational, role for embodiment in emotion word processing. Experiment 4, using a property generation task, provided support for the conclusion that emotions embodied in conceptual tasks are context-dependent situated simulations rather than associated emotional reactions. Implications for theories of embodied simulation and for emotion theories are discussed.
647	embodied	2011	Bohner, G; Dickel, N	Attitudes and Attitude Change	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY, VOL 62	Attitudes and attitude change remain core topics of contemporary social psychology. This selective review emphasizes work published from 2005 to 2009. It addresses constructionist and stable-entity conceptualizations of attitude, the distinction between implicit and explicit measures of attitude, and implications of the foregoing for attitude change. Associative and propositional processes in attitude change are considered at a general level and in relation to evaluative conditioning. The role of bodily states and physical perceptions in attitude change is reviewed. This is followed by an integrative perspective on processing models of persuasion and the consideration of meta-cognitions in persuasion. Finally, effects of attitudes on information processing, social memory, and behavior are highlighted. Core themes cutting across the areas reviewed are attempts at integrative theorizing bringing together formerly disparate phenomena and viewpoints.
648	embodied	2006	Reed, CL; Grubb, JD; Steele, C	Hands up: Attentional prioritization of space near the hand	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	This study explored whether hand location affected spatial attention. The authors used a visual covert-orienting paradigm to examine whether spatial attention mechanisms-location prioritization and shifting attention-were supported by bimodal, hand-centered representations of space. Placing 1 hand next to a target location, participants detected visual targets following highly predictive visual cues. There was no a priori reason for the hand to influence task performance unless hand presence influenced attention. Results showed that target detection near the hand was facilitated relative to detection away from the hand, regardless of cue validity. Similar facilitation was found with only proprioceptive or visual hand location information but not with arbitrary visual anchors or distant targets. Hand presence affected attentional prioritization of space, not the shifting of attention.
649	embodied	2005	Kaschak, MP; Madden, CJ; Therriault, DJ; Yaxley, RH; Aveyard, M; Blanchard, AA; Zwaan, RA	Perception of motion affects language processing	COGNITION	Recently developed accounts of language comprehension propose that sentences are understood by constructing a perceptual simulation of the events being described. These simulations involve the re-activation of patterns of brain activation that were formed during the comprehender's interaction with the world. In two experiments we explored the specificity of the processing mechanisms required to construct simulations during language comprehension. Participants listened to (and made judgments on) sentences that described motion in a particular direction (e.g. "The car approached you"). They simultaneously viewed dynamic black-and-white stimuli that produced the perception of movement in the same direction as the action specified in the sentence (i.e. towards you) or in the opposite direction as the action specified in the sentence (i.e. away from you). Responses were faster to sentences presented concurrently with a visual stimulus depicting motion in the opposite direction as the action described in the sentence. This suggests that the processing mechanisms recruited to construct simulations during language comprehension are also used during visual perception, and that these mechanisms can be quite specific. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
650	embodied	2009	Fuchs, T; De Jaegher, H	Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Current theories of social cognition are mainly based on a representationalist view. Moreover, they focus on a rather sophisticated and limited aspect of understanding others, i.e. on how we predict and explain others' behaviours through representing their mental states. Research into the 'social brain' has also favoured a third-person paradigm of social cognition as a passive observation of others' behaviour, attributing it to an inferential, simulative or projective process in the individual brain. In this paper, we present a concept of social understanding as an ongoing, dynamical process of participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. This process may be described (1) from a dynamical agentive systems point of view as an interaction and coordination of two embodied agents; (2) from a phenomenological approach as a mutual incorporation, i.e. a process in which the lived bodies of both participants extend and form a common intercorporality. Intersubjectivity, it is argued, is not a solitary task of deciphering or simulating the movements of others but means entering a process of embodied interaction and generating common meaning through it. This approach will be further illustrated by an analysis of primary dyadic interaction in early childhood.
651	embodied	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
652	embodied	2008	Bub, DN; Masson, MEJ; Cree, GS	Evocation of functional and volumetric gestural knowledge by objects and words	COGNITION	We distinguish between grasping gestures associated with using an object for its intended purpose (functional) and those used to pick up an object (volumetric) and we develop a novel experimental framework to show that both kinds of knowledge are automatically evoked by objects and by words denoting those objects. Cued gestures were carried out in the context of depicted objects or visual words. On incongruent trials, the cued gesture was not compatible with gestures typically associated with the contextual item. On congruent trials, the gesture was compatible with the item's functional or volumetric gesture. For both gesture types, response latency was longer for incongruent trials indicating that objects and words elicited both functional and volumetric manipulation knowledge. Additional evidence, however, clearly supports a distinction between these two kinds of gestural knowledge. Under certain task conditions, functional gestures can be evoked without the associated activation of volumetric gestures. We discuss the implication of these results for theories of action evoked by objects and words, and for interpretation of functional imaging results. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
653	embodied	2000	Kaschak, MP; Glenberg, AM	Constructing meaning: The role of affordances and grammatical constructions in sentence comprehension	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	The Indexical Hypothesis describes how sentences become meaningful through grounding their interpretation in action. We develop support for the hypothesis by examining how people understand innovative denominal verbs, that is, verbs made from nouns and first encountered by participants within the experiment (e.g., to crutch). Experiments 1 and 2 demonstrated that different syntactic constructions provide scenes or goals that influence the meaning created for the innovative verbs. Experiment 3 used reading time to demonstrate that people also consider possible interactions with the objects underlying the verbs (i.e., the affordances of the objects) when creating meaning. Experiment 4 used a property verification procedure to demonstrate that the affordances derived from the objects depend on the situation-specific actions needed to complete the goal specified by the syntactic construction. Thus the evidence supports a specific type of interaction between syntax and semantics that leads to understanding: The syntax specifies a general scene, and the affordances of objects are used to Specify the scene in detail sufficient to take action. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
654	embodied	2008	Uleman, JS; Saribay, SA; Gonzalez, CM	Spontaneous inferences, implicit impressions, and implicit theories	ANNUAL REVIEW OF PSYCHOLOGY	People make social inferences without intentions awareness or effort, i.e., spontaneously. We review recent findings on spontaneous social inferences (especially traits, goals, and causes) and closely related phenomena. We then describe current thinking on some of the most relevant processes, implicit knowledge, and theories. These include automatic and controlled processes and their interplay; embodied cognition, including mimicry; and associative versus rule-based processes. Implicit knowledge includes adult folk theories, conditions of personhood, self-knowledge to simulate others, and cultural and social class differences. Implicit theories concern Bayesian networks, recent attribution research, and questions about the utility of the disposition-situation dichotomy. Developmental research provides new insights. Spontaneous social inferences include a growing array of phenomena, but they have been insufficiently linked to other phenomena and theories. We hope the links suggested in this review begin to remedy this.
655	embodied	2008	Pitcher, D; Garrido, L; Walsh, V; Duchaine, BC	Transcranial magnetic stimulation disrupts the perception and embodiment of facial expressions	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Theories of embodied cognition propose that recognizing facial expressions requires visual processing followed by simulation of the somatovisceral responses associated with the perceived expression. To test this proposal, we targeted the right occipital face area (rOFA) and the face region of right somatosensory cortex (rSC) with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) while participants discriminated facial expressions. rTMS selectively impaired discrimination of facial expressions at both sites but had no effect on a matched face identity task. Site specificity within the rSC was demonstrated by targeting rTMS at the face and finger regions while participants performed the expression discrimination task. rTMS targeted at the face region impaired task performance relative to rTMS targeted at the finger region. To establish the temporal course of visual and somatosensory contributions to expression processing, double-pulse TMS was delivered at different times to rOFA and rSC during expression discrimination. Accuracy dropped when pulses were delivered at 60-100 ms at rOFA and at 100-140 and 130-170 ms at rSC. These sequential impairments at rOFA and rSC support embodied accounts of expression recognition as well as hierarchical models of face processing. The results also demonstrate that nonvisual cortical areas contribute during early stages of expression processing.
656	embodied	2008	Cook, SW; Mitchell, Z; Goldin-Meadow, S	Gesturing makes learning last	COGNITION	The gestures children spontaneously produce when explaining a task predict whether they will subsequently learn that task. Why? Gesture might simply reflect a child's readiness to learn a particular task. Alternatively, gesture might itself play a role in learning the task. To investigate these alternatives, we experimentally manipulated children's gesture during instruction in a new mathematical concept. We found that requiring children to gesture while learning the new concept helped them retain the knowledge they had gained during instruction. In contrast, requiring children to speak, but not gesture, while learning the concept had no effect on solidifying learning. Gesturing can thus play a causal role in learning, perhaps by giving learners an alternative, embodied way of representing new ideas. We may be able to improve children's learning just by encouraging them to move their hands. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
657	embodied	2009	Jostmann, NB; Lakens, D; Schubert, TW	Weight as an Embodiment of Importance	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Four studies show that the abstract concept of importance is grounded in bodily experiences of weight. Participants provided judgments of importance while they held either a heavy or a light clipboard. Holding a heavy clipboard increased judgments of monetary value (Study 1) and made participants consider fair decision-making procedures to be more important (Study 2). It also caused more elaborate thinking, as indicated by higher consistency between related judgments (Study 3) and by greater polarization of agreement ratings for strong versus weak arguments (Study 4). In line with an embodied perspective on cognition, these findings suggest that, much as weight makes people invest more physical effort in dealing with concrete objects, it also makes people invest more cognitive effort in dealing with abstract issues.
658	embodied	2006	de Lange, FP; Helmich, RC; Toni, I	Posture influences motor imagery: An fMRI study	NEUROIMAGE	Motor imagery is widely used to study cognitive aspects of the neural control of action. However, what is exactly simulated during motor imagery is still a matter of debate. On the one hand, it is conceivable that motor imagery is an embodied cognitive process, involving a simulation of movements of one's own body. The alternative possibility is that, although motor imagery relies on knowledge of the motor processes, it does not entail an actual motor simulation that is influenced by the physical configuration of one's own body. Here we discriminate between these two hypotheses, in the context of an established motor imagery task: laterality judgments of rotated hand drawings. We found that reaction times of hand laterality judgments followed the biomechanical constraints of left or right hand movements. Crucially, the position of subjects' own left and right arm influenced laterality judgments of left and right hands. In neural terms, hand laterality judgments activated a parieto-frontal network. The activity within this network increased with increasing biomechanical complexity of the imagined hand movements, even when the amount of stimulus rotation was identical. Moreover, activity in the intraparietal sulcus was modulated by subjects' own hand position: a larger incongruence in orientation between the subjects' hand and the stimulus hand led to a selective increase in intraparietal activity. Our results indicate that motor imagery generates motor plans that depend on the current configuration of the limbs. This motor plan is calculated by a parieto-frontal network. Within this network, the posterior parietal cortex appears to incorporate proprioceptive information related to the current position of the body into the motor plan. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
659	embodied	2011	Eskine, KJ; Kacinik, NA; Prinz, JJ	A Bad Taste in the Mouth: Gustatory Disgust Influences Moral Judgment	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Can sweet-tasting substances trigger kind, favorable judgments about other people? What about substances that are disgusting and bitter? Various studies have linked physical disgust to moral disgust, but despite the rich and sometimes striking findings these studies have yielded, no research has explored morality in conjunction with taste, which can vary greatly and may differentially affect cognition. The research reported here tested the effects of taste perception on moral judgments. After consuming a sweet beverage, a bitter beverage, or water, participants rated a variety of moral transgressions. Results showed that taste perception significantly affected moral judgments, such that physical disgust (induced via a bitter taste) elicited feelings of moral disgust. Further, this effect was more pronounced in participants with politically conservative views than in participants with politically liberal views. Taken together, these differential findings suggest that embodied gustatory experiences may affect moral processing more than previously thought.
660	embodied	2009	Shockley, K; Richardson, DC; Dale, R	Conversation and Coordinative Structures	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	People coordinate body postures and gaze patterns during conversation. We review literature showing that (1) action embodies cognition, (2) postural coordination emerges spontaneously when two people converse, (3) gaze patterns influence postural coordination, (4) gaze coordination is a function of common ground knowledge and visual information that conversants believe they share, and (5) gaze coordination is causally related to mutual understanding. We then consider how coordination, generally, can be understood as temporarily coupled neuromuscular components that function as a collective unit known as a coordinative structure in the motor control literature. We speculate that the coordination of gaze and body sway found in conversation may be understood as a cross-person coordinative structure that embodies the goals of the joint action system.
661	embodied	2010	Willems, RM; Hagoort, P; Casasanto, D	Body-Specific Representations of Action Verbs: Neural Evidence From Right- and Left-Handers	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	According to theories of embodied cognition, understanding a verb like throw involves unconsciously simulating the action of throwing, using areas of the brain that support motor planning. If understanding action words involves mentally simulating one's own actions, then the neurocognitive representation of word meanings should differ for people with different kinds of bodies, who perform actions in systematically different ways. In a test of the body-specificity hypothesis, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare premotor activity correlated with action verb understanding in right- and left-handers. Right-handers preferentially activated the left premotor cortex during lexical decisions on manual-action verbs (compared with nonmanual-action verbs), whereas left-handers preferentially activated right premotor areas. This finding helps refine theories of embodied semantics, suggesting that implicit mental simulation during language processing is body specific: Right- and left-handers,who perform actions differently, use correspondingly different areas of the brain for representing action verb meanings.
662	embodied	2007	Phillips-Silver, J; Trainor, LJ	Hearing what the body feels: Auditory encoding of rhythmic movement	COGNITION	Phillips-Silver and Trainor (Phillips-Silver, J., Trainor, L.J., (2005). Feeling the beat: movement influences infants' rhythm perception. Science, 308, 1430) demonstrated an early cross-modal interaction between body movement and auditory encoding of musical rhythm in infants. Here we show that the way adults move their bodies to music influences their auditory perception of the rhythm structure. We trained adults, while listening to an ambiguous rhythm with no accented beats, to bounce by bending their knees to interpret the rhythm either as a march or as a waltz. At test, adults identified as similar an auditory version of the rhythm pattern with accented strong beats that matched their previous bouncing experience in comparison with a version whose accents did not match. In subsequent experiments we showed that this effect does not depend on visual information, but that movement of the body is critical. Parallel results from adults and infants suggest that the movement-sound interaction develops early and is fundamental to music processing throughout life. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
663	embodied	2007	Broaders, SC; Cook, SW; Mitchell, Z; Goldin-Meadow, S	Making children gesture brings out implicit knowledge and leads to learning	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Speakers routinely gesture with their hands when they talk, and those gestures often convey information not found anywhere in their speech. This information is typically not consciously accessible, yet it provides an early sign that the speaker is ready to learn a particular task (S. Goldin-Meadow, 2003). In this sense, the unwitting gestures that speakers produce reveal their implicit knowledge. But what if a learner was forced to gesture? Would those elicited gestures also reveal implicit knowledge and, in so doing, enhance learning? To address these questions, the authors told children to gesture while explaining their solutions to novel math problems and examined the effect of this manipulation on the expression of implicit knowledge in gesture and on learning. The authors found that, when told to gesture, children who were unable to solve the math problems often added new and correct problem-solving strategies, expressed only in gesture, to their repertoires. The authors also found that when these children were given instruction on the math problems later, they were more likely to succeed on the problems than children told not to gesture. Telling children to gesture thus encourages them to convey previously unexpressed, implicit ideas, which, in turn, makes them receptive to instruction that leads to learning.
664	embodied	2012	Zaki, J; Davis, JI; Ochsner, KN	Overlapping activity in anterior insula during interoception and emotional experience	NEUROIMAGE	Classic theories of emotion posit that awareness of one's internal bodily states (interoception) is a key component of emotional experience. This view has been indirectly supported by data demonstrating similar patterns of brain activity - most importantly, in the anterior insula - during both interoception and emotion elicitation. However, no study has directly compared these two phenomena within participants, leaving it unclear whether interoception and emotional experience truly share the same functional neural architecture. The current study addressed this gap in knowledge by examining the neural convergence of these two phenomena within the same population. In one task, participants monitored their own heartbeat: in another task they watched emotional video clips and rated their own emotional responses to the videos. Consistent with prior research, heartbeat monitoring engaged a circumscribed area spanning insular cortex and adjacent inferior frontal operculum. Critically, this interoception-related cluster also was engaged when participants rated their own emotion, and activity here correlated with the trial-by-trial intensity of participants' emotional experience. These findings held across both group-level and individual participant-level approaches to localizing interoceptive cortex. Together, these data further clarify the functional role of the anterior insula and provide novel insights about the connection between bodily awareness and emotion. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
665	embodied	2008	Kiefer, M; Sim, EJ; Herrnberger, B; Grothe, J; Hoenig, K	The Sound of Concepts: Four Markers for a Link between Auditory and Conceptual Brain Systems	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Traditionally, concepts are conceived as abstract mental entities distinct from perceptual or motor brain systems. However, recent results let assume modality-specific representations of concepts. The ultimate test for grounding concepts in perception requires the fulfillment of the following four markers: conceptual processing during (1) an implicit task should activate (2) a perceptual region (3) rapidly and (4) selectively. Here, we show using functional magnetic resonance imaging and recordings of event-related potentials, that acoustic conceptual features recruit auditory brain areas even when implicitly presented through visual words. Fulfilling the four markers, the findings of our study unequivocally link the auditory and conceptual brain systems: recognition of words denoting objects, for which acoustic features are highly relevant (e. g.,"telephone"), ignited cell assemblies in posterior superior and middle temporal gyri (pSTG/MTG) within 150 ms that were also activated by sound perception. Importantly, activity within a cluster of pSTG/MTG increased selectively as a function of acoustic, but not of visual and action-related feature relevance. The implicitness of the conceptual task, the selective modulation of left pSTG/MTG activity by acoustic feature relevance, the early onset of this activity at 150 ms and its anatomical overlap with perceptual sound processing are four markers for a modality-specific representation of auditory conceptual features in left pSTG/MTG. Our results therefore provide the first direct evidence for a link between perceptual and conceptual acoustic processing. They demonstrate that access to concepts involves a partial reinstatement of brain activity during the perception of objects.
666	embodied	2005	Smith, L; Gasser, M	The development of embodied cognition: Six lessons from babies	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	The embodiment hypothesis is the idea that intelligence emerges in the interaction of an agent with an environment and as a result of sensorimotor activity. We offer six lessons for developing, embodied intelligent agents suggested by research in developmental psychology. We argue that starting as a baby grounded in a physical, social, and linguistic world is crucial to the development of the flexible and inventive intelligence that characterizes humankind.
667	embodied	2012	Krishna, A	An integrative review of sensory marketing: Engaging the senses to affect perception, judgment and behavior	JOURNAL OF CONSUMER PSYCHOLOGY	I define "sensory marketing" as "marketing that engages the consumers' senses and affects their perception, judgment and behavior." From a managerial perspective, sensory marketing can be used to create subconscious triggers that characterize consumer perceptions of abstract notions of the product (e.g., its sophistication or quality). Given the gamut of explicit marketing appeals made to consumers every day, subconscious triggers which appeal to the basic senses may be a more efficient way to engage consumers. Also, these sensory triggers may result in consumers' self-generation of (desirable) brand attributes, rather than those verbally provided by the advertiser. The understanding of these sensory triggers implies an understanding of sensation and perception as it applies to consumer behavior-this is the research perspective of sensory marketing. This review article presents an overview of research on sensory perception. The review also points out areas where little research has been done, so that each additional paper has a greater chance of making a bigger difference and sparking further research. It is quite apparent from the review that there still remains tremendous need for research within the domain of sensory marketing-research that can be very impactful. (C) 2011 Society for Consumer Psychology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
668	embodied	2004	Zwaan, RA; Madden, CJ; Yaxley, RH; Aveyard, ME	Moving words: dynamic representations in language comprehension	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Eighty-two participants listened to sentences and then judged whether two sequentially presented visual objects were the same. On critical trials, participants heard a sentence describe the motion of a ball toward or away from the observer (e.g., "The pitcher hurled the softball to you"). Seven hundred and fifty milliseconds after the offset of the sentence, a picture of an object was presented for 500 ms, followed by another picture. On critical trials, the two pictures depicted the kind of ball mentioned in the sentence. The second picture was displayed 175 ms after the first. Crucially, it was either slightly larger or smaller than the first picture, thus suggesting movement of the ball toward or away from the observer. Participants responded more quickly when the implied movement of the balls matched the movement described in the sentence. This result provides support for the view that language comprehension involves dynamic perceptual simulations. (C) 2004 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
669	embodied	2010	Lombardo, MV; Chakrabarti, B; Bullmore, ET; Wheelwright, SJ; Sadek, SA; Suckling, J; Baron-Cohen, S	Shared Neural Circuits for Mentalizing about the Self and Others	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Although many examples exist for shared neural representations of self and other, it is unknown how such shared representations interact with the rest of the brain. Furthermore, do high-level inference-based shared mentalizing representations interact with lower level embodied/simulation-based shared representations? We used functional neuroimaging (fMRI) and a functional connectivity approach to assess these questions during high-level inference-based mentalizing. Shared mentalizing representations in ventromedial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate/precuneus, and temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) all exhibited identical functional connectivity patterns during mentalizing of both self and other. Connectivity patterns were distributed across low-level embodied neural systems such as the frontal operculum/ventral premotor cortex, the anterior insula, the primary sensorimotor cortex, and the presupplementary motor area. These results demonstrate that identical neural circuits are implementing processes involved in mentalizing of both self and other and that the nature of such processes may be the integration of low-level embodied processes within higher level inference-based mentalizing.
670	embodied	2010	Yoo, Y	COMPUTING IN EVERYDAY LIFE: A CALL FOR RESEARCH ON EXPERIENTIAL COMPUTING	MIS QUARTERLY	The information systems field emerged as a new discipline of artificial science as a result of intellectual efforts to understand the nature and consequences of computer and communication technology in modern organizations. As the rapid development of digital technology continues to make computers and computing apart of everyday experiences, we are once again in need of a new discipline of the artificial. In this essay, I argue that the IS community must expand its intellectual boundaries by embracing experiential computing as an emerging field of inquiry in order to fill this growing intellectual void. Experiential computing involves digitally mediated embodied experiences in everyday activities through everyday artifacts that have embedded computing capabilities. Experiential computing is enabled by the mediation of four dimensions of human experiences ('time, space, actors, and artifacts) through digital technology. Drawing on a research framework that encompasses both behavioral and design sciences, six research opportunities that the IS research community can explore are suggested. Ultimately, I propose that the IS field return to its roots, the science of the artificial, by decisively expanding the scope of its inquiry and establishing a new domain of research on computing in everyday life experiences.
671	embodied	2009	Echterhoff, G; Higgins, ET; Levine, JM	Shared Reality Experiencing Commonality With Others' Inner States About the World	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Humans have a fundamental need to experience a shared reality with others. We present a new conceptualization of shared reality based on four conditions. We posit (a) that shared reality involves a (subjectively perceived) commonality of individuals' inner states (not just observable behaviors); (b) that shared reality is about some target referent; (c) that for a shared reality to occur, the commonality of inner states must be appropriately motivated; and (d) that shared reality involves the experience of a successful connection to other people's inner states. In reviewing relevant evidence, we emphasize research on the saying-is-believing effect, which illustrates the creation of shared reality in interpersonal communication. We discuss why shared reality provides a better explanation of the findings from saying-is-believing studies than do other formulations. Finally, we examine relations between our conceptualization of shared reality and related constructs (including empathy, perspective taking, theory of mind, common ground, embodied synchrony, and socially distributed knowledge) and indicate how our approach may promote a comprehensive and differentiated understanding of social-sharing phenomena.
672	embodied	2009	Tversky, B; Hard, BM	Embodied and disembodied cognition: Spatial perspective-taking	COGNITION	Although people can take spatial perspectives different from their own, it is widely assumed that egocentric perspectives are natural and have primacy. Two studies asked respondents to describe the spatial relations between two objects on a table in photographed scenes; in some versions, a person sitting behind the objects was either looking at or reaching for one of the objects. The mere presence of another person in a position to act on the objects induced a good proportion of respondents to describe the spatial relations from that person's point of view (Experiment 1). When the query about the spatial relations was phrased in terms of action, more respondents took the other's perspective than their own (Experiment 2). The implication of action elicits spontaneous spatial perspective-taking, seemingly in the service of understanding the other's actions. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
673	embodied	2010	Buxbaum, LJ; Kalenine, S	Action knowledge, visuomotor activation, and embodiment in the two action systems	YEAR IN COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE 2010	Scientific interest in the relationship between cognition and action has increased markedly in the past several years, fueled by the discovery of mirror neurons in monkey prefrontal and parietal cortex and by the emergence of a movement in cognitive psychology, termed the embodied cognition framework, which emphasizes the role of simulation in cognitive representations. Guided by a functional neuroanatomic model called the Two Action Systems account, which posits numerous points of differentiation between structure- and function-based actions, we focus on two of the major issues under recent scrutiny: the relationship between representations for action production and recognition, and the role of action in object representations. We suggest that mirror neurons in humans are not critical for full action understanding, and that only function-based (and not structure-based) action is a component of embodied object concepts.
674	embodied	2006	Gray, WD; Sims, CR; Fu, WT; Schoelles, MJ	The soft constraints hypothesis: A rational analysis approach to resource allocation for interactive behavior	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Soft constraints hypothesis (SCH) is a rational analysis approach that holds that the mixture of perceptual-motor and cognitive resources allocated for interactive behavior is adjusted based on temporal cost-benefit tradeoffs. Alternative approaches maintain that cognitive resources are in some sense protected or conserved in that greater amounts of perceptual-motor effort will be expended to conserve lesser amounts of cognitive effort. One alternative, the minimum memory hypothesis (MMH), holds that people favor strategies that minimize the use of memory. SCH is compared with MMH across 3 experiments and with predictions of an Ideal Performer Model that uses ACT-R's memory system in a reinforcement learning approach that maximizes expected utility by minimizing time. Model and data support the SCH view of resource allocation; at the under 1000-ms level of analysis, mixtures of cognitive and perceptual-motor resources are adjusted based on their cost-benefit tradeoffs for interactive behavior.
675	embodied	2000	Large, EW	On synchronizing movements to music	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	How do people synchronize movement patterns with music? Most likely, when people listen to a musical rhythm, they perceive a bear and a metrical structure in the rhythm, and these perceived patterns enable coordination with the music. Here, a model of meter perception is proposed in which a musical stimulus provides input to a pattern-forming dynamical system. Under rhythmic stimulation, the system undergoes bifurcations that correspond to the birth of self-sustained oscillations and the formation of temporally structured patterns of oscillations. The resulting patterns dynamically embody the perception of beat and meter, and they are stable in the sense that they can persist in the in the face of rhythmic conflict. The performance of the model is compared with the results of a recent beat induction study (J. Snyder, C.L. Krumhansl, Tapping to ragtime: Cues to pulse-finding. Music Perception, 2000 (under review)) in which musicians tapped along with musical rhythms. The network closely matched human performance for natural musical signals and showed a similar pattern of breakdowns as the input degraded. The theoretical implications of these findings are considered. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
676	embodied	2007	Tsagarakis, NG; Metta, G; Sandini, G; Vernon, D; Beira, R; Becchi, F; Righetti, L; Santos-Victor, J; Ijspeert, AJ; Carrozza, MC; Caldwell, DG	iCub: the design and realization of an open humanoid platform for cognitive and neuroscience research	ADVANCED ROBOTICS	The development of robotic cognition and the advancement of understanding of human cognition form two of the current greatest challenges in robotics and neuroscience, respectively. The RobotCub project aims to develop an embodied robotic child (iCub) with the physical (height 90 cm and mass less than 23 kg) and ultimately cognitive abilities of a 2.5-year-old human child. The iCub will be a freely available open system which can be used by scientists in all cognate disciplines from developmental psychology to epigenetic robotics to enhance understanding of cognitive systems through the study of cognitive development. The iCub will be open both in software, but more importantly in all aspects of the hardware and mechanical design. In this paper the design of the mechanisms and structures forming the basic 'body' of the iCub are described. The papers considers kinematic structures dynamic design criteria, actuator specification and selection, and detailed mechanical and electronic design. The paper concludes with tests of the performance of sample joints, and comparison of these results with the design requirements and simulation projects.
677	embodied	2005	Silvia, PJ	Emotional responses to art: From collation and arousal to cognition and emotion	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	The study of emotional responses to art has remained curiously detached from the psychology of emotions. Historically, the leading tradition has been Daniel Berlyne's psychobiological model, embodied by the "new experimental aesthetics" movement of the 1970s. That theory explained hedonic qualities of art by referring to arousal-modifying "collative properties" of art, such as complexity, novelty, uncertainty, and conflict. Berlyne's influence on the experimental study of aesthetics has been enormous, largely for the better but also for the worse. Berlyne's suspicion of cognitive psychology led to an unproductive perseveration on arousal as the mechanism of "aesthetic responses." This article describes how appraisal theories of emotion inform the study of aesthetics. Appraisal theories make new predictions about emotional responses to art, expand the domain of aesthetic emotions beyond positive emotions such as interest and enjoyment, inform other theories (e.g., prototypicality models), and reinterpret past findings.
678	embodied	2008	Gallese, V	Mirror neurons and the social nature of language: The neural exploitation hypothesis	SOCIAL NEUROSCIENCE	This paper discusses the relevance of the discovery of mirror neurons in monkeys and of the mirror neuron system in humans to a neuroscientific account of primates' social cognition and its evolution. It is proposed that mirror neurons and the functional mechanism they underpin, embodied simulation, call ground within a unitary neurophysiological explanatory framework important aspects of human social cognition. In particular, the main focus is on language, here conceived according to a neurophenomenological perspective. grounding meaning on the social experience of action. A neurophysiological hypothesis-the "neural exploitation hypothesis"-is introduced to explain how key aspects of human social cognition are underpinned by brain mechanisms originally evolved for sensorimotor integration. It is proposed that these mechanisms were later on adapted as new neurofunctional architecture for thought and language. while retaining their original functions as well. By neural exploitation, social cognition and language can be linked to the experiential domain of action.
679	embodied	2009	Goldman, A; de Vignemont, F	Is social cognition embodied?	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Theories of embodied cognition abound in the literature, but it is often unclear how to understand them. We offer several interpretations of embodiment, the most interesting being the thesis that mental representations in bodily formats (B-formats) have an important role in cognition. Potential B-formats include motoric, somatosensory, affective and interoceptive formats. The literature on mirroring and related phenomena provides support for a limited-scope version of embodied social cognition under the B-format interpretation. It is questionable, however, whether such a thesis can be extended. We show the limits of embodiment in social cognition.
680	embodied	2007	Negri, GAL; Rumiati, RI; Zadini, A; Ukmar, M; Mahon, BZ; Caramazza, A	What is the role of motor simulation in action and object recognition? Evidence from apraxia	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	An important issue in contemporary cognitive neuroscience concerns the role of motor production processes in perceptual and conceptual analysis. To address this issue, we studied the performance of a large group of unilateral stroke patients across a range of tasks using the same set of common manipulable objects. All patients (n = 37) were tested for their ability to demonstrate the use of the objects, recognize the objects, recognize the corresponding object-associated pantomimes, and imitate those same pantomimes. At the group level we observed reliable correlations between object use and pantomime recognition, object use and object recognition, and pantomime imitation and pantomime recognition. At the single-case level, we document that the ability to recognize actions and objects dissociates from the ability to use those same objects. These data are problematic for the hypothesis that motor processes are constitutively involved in the recognition of actions and objects and frame new questions about the inferences that are merited by recent findings in cognitive neuroscience.
681	embodied	2006	Pearce, MT; Wiggins, GA	Expectation in melody: The influence of context and learning	MUSIC PERCEPTION	THE IMPLICATION-REALIZATION (IR) theory (Narmour, 1990) posits two cognitive systems involved in the generation of melodic expectations: The first consists of a limited number of symbolic rules that are held to be innate and universal; the second reflects the top-down influences of acquired stylistic knowledge. Aspects of both systems have been implemented as quantitative models in research which has yielded empirical support for both components of the theory (Cuddy & Lunny, 1995; Krumhansl, 1995a, 1995b; Schellenberg, 1996, 1997). However, there is also evidence that the implemented bottom-up rules constitute too inflexible a model to account for the influence of the musical experience of the listener and the melodic context in which expectations are elicited. A theory is presented, according to which both bottom-up and top-down descriptions of observed patterns of melodic expectation may be accounted for in terms of the induction of statistical regularities in existing musical repertoires. A computational model that embodies this theory is developed and used to reanalyze existing experimental data on melodic expectancy. The results of three experiments with increasingly complex melodic stimuli demonstrate that this model is capable of accounting for listeners' expectations as well as or better than the two-factor model of Schellenberg (1997).
682	embodied	2001	Wilson, M	The case for sensorimotor coding in working memory	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	The highly influential Baddeley and Hitch model of working memory (Baddeley & Hitch, 1974; see also Baddeley, 1986) posited analogical forms of representation that can be broadly characterized as sensorimotor, both for verbal and for visuospatial material. However, difficulties with the model of verbal working memory in particular have led investigators to develop alternative models that avoid appealing either to sensory coding or to motoric coding, or to both. This paper examines the evidence for sensorimotor coding in working memory, including evidence from neuropsychology and from sign language research, as well as from standard working memory paradigms, and concludes that only a sensorimotor model can accommodate the broad range of effects that characterize verbal working memory. In addition, several findings that have been considered to speak against sensorimotor involvement are reexamined and are argued to be in fact compatible with sensorimotor coding. These conclusions have broad implications, in that they support the emerging theoretical viewpoint of embodied cognition.
683	embodied	2010	Kessler, K; Thomson, LA	The embodied nature of spatial perspective taking: Embodied transformation versus sensorimotor interference	COGNITION	Humans are able to mentally adopt the spatial perspective of others and understand the world from their point of view. We propose that spatial perspective taking (SPT) could have developed from the physical alignment of perspectives. This would support the notion that others have put forward claiming that SPT is an embodied cognitive process. We investigated this issue by contrasting several accounts in terms of the assumed processes and the nature of the embodiment. In a series of four experiments we found substantial evidence that the transformations during SPT comprise large parts of the body schema, which we did not observe for object rotation. We further conclude that the embodiment of SPT is best conceptualised as the self-initiated emulation of a body movement, supporting the notion of endogenous motoric embodiment. Overall our results are much more in agreement with an 'embodied' transformation account than with the notion of sensorimotor interference. Finally we discuss our findings in terms of SPT as a possible evolutionary stepping stone towards more complex alignments of socio-cognitive perspectives. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
684	embodied	2010	Hutchins, E	Cognitive Ecology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Cognitive ecology is the study of cognitive phenomena in context. In particular, it points to the web of mutual dependence among the elements of a cognitive ecosystem. At least three fields were taking a deeply ecological approach to cognition 30 years ago: Gibson's ecological psychology, Bateson's ecology of mind, and Soviet cultural-historical activity theory. The ideas developed in those projects have now found a place in modern views of embodied, situated, distributed cognition. As cognitive theory continues to shift from units of analysis defined by inherent properties of the elements to units defined in terms of dynamic patterns of correlation across elements, the study of cognitive ecosystems will become an increasingly important part of cognitive science.
685	embodied	2011	Wilson-Mendenhall, CD; Barrett, LF; Simmons, WK; Barsalou, LW	Grounding emotion in situated conceptualization	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	According to the Conceptual Act Theory of Emotion, the situated conceptualization used to construe a situation determines the emotion experienced. A neuroimaging experiment tested two core hypotheses of this theory: (1) different situated conceptualizations produce different forms of the same emotion in different situations, (2) the composition of a situated conceptualization emerges from shared multimodal circuitry distributed across the brain that produces emotional states generally. To test these hypotheses, the situation in which participants experienced an emotion was manipulated. On each trial, participants immersed themselves in a physical danger or social evaluation situation and then experienced fear or anger. According to Hypothesis 1, the brain activations for the same emotion should differ as a function of the preceding situation (after removing activations that arose while constructing the situation). According to Hypothesis 2, the critical activations should reflect conceptual processing relevant to the emotion in the current situation, drawn from shared multimodal circuitry underlying emotion. The results supported these predictions and demonstrated the compositional process that produces situated conceptualizations dynamically. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
686	embodied	2008	Seamans, JK; Lapish, CC; Durstewitz, D	Comparing the Prefrontal Cortex of Rats and Primates: Insights from Electrophysiology	NEUROTOXICITY RESEARCH	There is a long-standing debate about whether rats have what could be considered a prefrontal cortex (PFC) and, if they do, what its primate homologue is. Anatomical evidence supports the view that the rat medial PFC is related to both the primate anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the dorsolateral PFC. Functionally the primate and human ACC are believed to be involved in the monitoring of actions and outcomes to guide decisions especially in challenging situations where cognitive conflict and errors arise. In contrast, the dorsolateral PFC is responsible for the maintenance and manipulation of goal-related items in memory in the service of planning, problem solving, and predicting forthcoming events. Recent multiple single-unit recording studies in rats have reported strong correlates of motor planning, movement and reward anticipation analogous to what has been observed in the primate ACC. There is also emerging evidence that rats may partly encode information over delays using body posture or variations in running path as embodied strategies, and that these are the aspects tracked by medial PFC neurons. The primate PFC may have elaborated on these rudimentary functions by carrying them over to more abstract levels of mental representation, more independent from somatic or other external mnemonic cues, and allowing manipulation of mental contents outside specific task contexts. Therefore, from an electrophysiological and computational perspective, the rat medial PFC seems to combine elements of the primate ACC and dorsolateral PFC at a rudimentary level. In primates, these functions may have formed the building blocks required for abstract rule encoding during the expansion of the cortex dorsolaterally.
687	embodied	2013	Wilson, AD; Golonka, S	Embodied cognition is not what you think it is	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The most exciting hypothesis in cognitive science right now is the theory that cognition is embodied. Like all good ideas in cognitive science, however, embodiment immediately came to mean six different things. The most common definitions involve the straightforward claim that "states of the body modify states of the mind." However, the implications of embodiment are actually much more radical than this. If cognition can span the brain, body, and the environment, then the "states of mind" of disembodied cognitive science won't exist to be modified. Cognition will instead be an extended system assembled from a broad array of resources. Taking embodiment seriously therefore requires both new methods and theory. Here we outline four key steps that research programs should follow in order to fully engage with the implications of embodiment. The first step is to conduct a task analysis, which characterizes from a first person perspective the specific task that a perceiving-acting cognitive agent is faced with. The second step is to identify the task-relevant resources the agent has access to in order to solve the task. These resources can span brain, body, and environment. The third step is to identify how the agent can assemble these resources into a system capable of solving the problem at hand. The last step is to test the agent's performance to confirm that agent is actually using the solution identified in step 3. We explore these steps in more detail with reference to two useful examples (the outfielder problem and the A-not-B error), and introduce how to apply this analysis to the thorny question of language use. Embodied cognition is more than we think it is, and we have the tools we need to realize its full potential.
688	embodied	2010	Havas, DA; Glenberg, AM; Gutowski, KA; Lucarelli, MJ; Davidson, RJ	Cosmetic Use of Botulinum Toxin-A Affects Processing of Emotional Language	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	How does language reliably evoke emotion, as it does when people read a favorite novel or listen to a skilled orator? Recent evidence suggests that comprehension involves a mental simulation of sentence content that calls on the same neural systems used in literal action, perception, and emotion. In this study, we demonstrated that involuntary facial expression plays a causal role in the processing of emotional language. Subcutaneous injections of botulinum toxin-A (BTX) were used to temporarily paralyze the facial muscle used in frowning. We found that BTX selectively slowed the reading of sentences that described situations that normally require the paralyzed muscle for expressing the emotions evoked by the sentences. This finding demonstrates that peripheral feedback plays a role in language processing, supports facial-feedback theories of emotional cognition, and raises questions about the effects of BTX on cognition and emotional reactivity. We account for the role of facial feedback in language processing by considering neurophysiological mechanisms and reinforcement-learning theory.
689	embodied	2009	Makeig, S; Gramann, K; Jung, TP; Sejnowski, TJ; Poizner, H	Linking brain, mind and behavior	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	Cortical brain areas and dynamics evolved to organize motor behavior in our three-dimensional environment also support more general human cognitive processes. Yet traditional brain imaging paradigms typically allow and record only minimal participant behavior, then reduce the recorded data to single map features of averaged responses. To more fully investigate the complex links between distributed brain dynamics and motivated natural behavior, we propose the development of wearable mobile brain/body imaging (MoBI) systems that continuously capture the wearer's high-density electrical brain and muscle signals, three-dimensional body movements, audiovisual scene and point of regard, plus new data-driven analysis methods to model their interrelationships. The new imaging modality should allow new insights into how spatially distributed brain dynamics support natural human cognition and agency. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
690	embodied	2006	Clark, A	Language, embodiment, and the cognitive niche	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Embodied agents use bodily actions and environmental interventions to make the world a better place to think in. Where does language fit into this emerging picture of the embodied, ecologically efficient agent? One useful way to approach this question is to consider language itself as a cognition-enhancing animal-built structure. To take this perspective is to view language as a kind of self-constructed cognitive niche: a persisting but never stationary material scaffolding whose crucial role in promoting thought and reason remains surprisingly poorly understood. It is the very materiality of this linguistic scaffolding, I suggest, that gives it some key benefits. By materializing thought in words, we create structures that are themselves proper objects of perception, manipulation, and (further) thought.
691	embodied	2004	Gray, WD; Fu, WT	Soft constraints in interactive behavior: the case of ignoring perfect knowledge in-the-world for imperfect knowledge in-the-head	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Constraints and dependencies among the elements of embodied cognition form patterns or microstrategies of interactive behavior. Hard constraints determine which microstrategies are possible. Soft constraints determine which of the possible microstrategies are most likely to be selected. When selection is non-deliberate or automatic the least effort microstrategy is chosen. In calculating the effort required to execute a microstrategy each of the three types of operations, memory retrieval, perception, and action, are given equal weight; that is, perceptual-motor activity does not have a privileged status with respect to memory. Soft constraints can work contrary to the designer's intentions by making the access of perfect knowledge in-the-world more effortful than the access of imperfect knowledge in-the-head. These implications of soft constraints are tested in two experiments. In experiment 1 we varied the perceptual-motor effort of accessing knowledge in-the-world as well as the effort of retrieving items from memory. In experiment 2 we replicated one of the experiment I conditions to collect eye movement data. The results suggest that milliseconds matter. Soft constraints lead to a reliance on knowledge in-the-head even when the absolute difference in perceptual-motor versus memory retrieval effort is small, and even when relying on memory leads to a higher error rate and lower performance. We discuss the implications of soft constraints for routine interactive behavior, accounts of embodied cognition, and tool and interface design. (C) 2004 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
692	embodied	2010	Borghi, AM; Cimatti, F	Embodied cognition and beyond: Acting and sensing the body	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Embodied cognition (EC) underlines that cognition is constrained by the kind of body we possess, and stresses the importance of action for cognition. In this perspective the body is always considered as an acting body. Here, we review EC literature discussing studies that show that body parts are not considered independent of their involvement in action. We propose to extend EC perspective through studying the body independently from its direct involvement in goal-directed action. Through this we aim to avoid the risk of limiting the notion of "sense of the body" to the restricted boundaries of the flesh of brain-body system. In our extended perspective language is considered as a form of action too. We propose that: (a) internal language (i.e. social language used as an internal medium for thought and planning) can contribute to form a unitary sense of our body, and (b) language can help to reshape the way we implicitly perceive our own body. Namely, it can modify our sense of body by extending its boundaries beyond the boundaries of the anatomical body. We argue for an integrated notion of bodily self-suggesting that the internal sense and the boundaries of the human body coincide with the extensions that linguistic tools allow. In sum, the basic idea we hold is that human body is a social entity. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
693	embodied	2009	Minio-Paluello, I; Baron-Cohen, S; Avenanti, A; Walsh, V; Aglioti, SM	Absence of Embodied Empathy During Pain Observation in Asperger Syndrome	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: Asperger syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental condition within the autism spectrum conditions (ASC) characterized by specific difficulties in communication, social interaction, and empathy that is essential for sharing and understanding others' feelings and emotions. Although reduced empathy is considered a core feature of ASC, neurophysiological evidence of empathic deficits before and below mentalizing and perspective taking is lacking, We explored whether people with AS differ from neurotypical control participants in their empathic corticospinal response to the observation of others' pain and the modulatory role played by phenomenal experience of observed pain and personality traits. Methods: Sixteen right-handed men with AS (aged 28.0 +/- 7.2 years) and 20 neurotypical controls (aged 25.3 +/- 6.7 years) age, sex, and IQ matched, underwent single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation during observation of painful and nonpainful stimuli affecting another individual. Results: When observing other's pain, participants with AS, in contrast to neurotypical control participants, did not show any amplitude reduction of motor-evoked potentials recorded from the muscle vicariously affected by pain, nor did their neurophysiological response correlate with imagined pain sensory qualities. Participants with AS represented others' pain in relation to the self-oriented arousal experienced while watching pain videos. Conclusions: Finding no embodiment of others' pain provides neurophysiological evidence for reduced empathic resonance in people with AS and indicates that their empathic difficulties involve not only cognitive dimensions but also sensorimotor resonance with others. We suggest that absence of embodied empathy may be linked to changes at very basic levels of neural processing.
694	embodied	2007	Beilock, SL; Holt, LE	Embodied preference judgments - Can likeability be driven by the motor system?	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Can covert sensorimotor simulation of stimulus-relevant actions influence affective judgments, even when there is no intention to act? Skilled and novice typists picked which of two letter dyads they preferred. In each pair, one dyad, if typed using standard typing methods, would involve the same fingers (e.g., FV); the other would be typed with different fingers (e.g., FJ). Thus, if typed, dyads of the former kind should create more motor interference than dyads of the latter kind. Although individuals could not explain how the dyads differed, skilled typists preferred those typed with different fingers. Novices showed no preference. Moreover, a motor task performed while making dyad preference judgments attenuated skilled typists' preference-but only when the motor task involved the specific fingers that would be used to type the dyads. These findings suggest that in skilled typists, perceiving letters prompts covert sensorimotor simulation of typing them, which in turn influences affective judgments about this information.
695	embodied	2005	Fischer, G; Giaccardi, E; Eden, H; Sugimoto, M; Ye, YW	Beyond binary choices: Integrating individual and social creativity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	The power of the unaided individual mind is highly overrated. Although society often thinks of creative individuals as working in isolation, intelligence and creativity result in large part from interaction and collaboration with other individuals. Much human creativity is social, arising from activities that take place in a context in which interaction with other People and the artifacts that embody collective knowledge are essential contributors. This paper examines: (1) how individual and social creativity can be integrated by means of proper collaboration models and tools supporting distributed cognitiori; (2) how the creation of shareable externalizations ("boundary objects") and the adoption of evolutionary process models in the construction of meta-design environments can enhance creativity and support spontaneous design activities ("unselfconscious cultures of design"); and (3) how a new design competence is emerging-one that requires passage from individual creative actions to synergetic activities, from the reflective practitioner to reflective communities and from given tasks to personally meaningful activities. The paper offers examples in the context of collaborative design and art practice, including urban planning, interactive art and open source. In the effort to draw a viable path "beyond binary choices", the paper points out some major challenges for the next generation of socio-technical environments to further increase the integration of individual and social creativity. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
696	embodied	2011	Fischer, MH; Brugger, P	When digits help digits: spatial-numerical associations point to finger counting as prime example of embodied cognition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Spatial numerical associations (SNAs) are prevalent yet their origin is poorly understood. We first consider the possible prime role of reading habits in shaping SNAs and list three observations that argue against a prominent influence of this role: (1) directional reading habits for numbers may conflict with those for non-numerical symbols, (2) short-term experimental manipulations can overrule the impact of decades of reading experience, (3) SNAs predate the acquisition of reading. As a promising alternative, we discuss behavioral, neuroscientific, and neuropsychological evidence in support of finger counting as the most likely initial determinant of SNAs. Implications of this "manumerical cognition" stance for the distinction between grounded, embodied, and situated cognition are discussed.
697	embodied	2000	Thelen, E	Grounded in the World: Developmental Origins of the Embodied Mind	INFANCY	Piaget's (1952) question of how the adult mind emerges from the sensorimotor infant is still the framing issue for developmental psychology. Here I suggest that real-life skill is better understood if the sensorimotor origins of cognition are not abandoned. Skilled people are not only better at both abstract and logical thinking but also at processing the world "online" and, most important, seamlessly and rapidly shifting between the two modes. I illustrate the tight coupling between action, perception, and cognition in early life and propose that this coupling remains but becomes more flexibly adaptive. Further, I show that the language of dynamics is appropriate to capture these mind-body-world interconnections.
698	embodied	2012	Meier, BP; Schnall, S; Schwarz, N; Bargh, JA	Embodiment in Social Psychology	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Psychologists are increasingly interested in embodiment based on the assumption that thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are grounded in bodily interaction with the environment. We examine how embodiment is used in social psychology, and we explore the ways in which embodied approaches enrich traditional theories. Although research in this area is burgeoning, much of it has been more descriptive than explanatory. We provide a critical discussion of the trajectory of embodiment research in social psychology. We contend that future researchers should engage in a phenomenon-based approach, highlight the theoretical boundary conditions and mediators involved, explore novel action-relevant outcome measures, and address the role of individual differences broadly defined. Such research will likely provide a more explanatory account of the role of embodiment in general terms as well as how it expands the knowledge base in social psychology.
699	embodied	2001	Clark, A	Reasons, robots and the extended mind	MIND & LANGUAGE	A suitable project for the new Millenium is to radically reconfigure our image of human rationality. Such a project is already underway, within the Cognitive Sciences, under the umbrellas of work in Situated Cognition, Distributed and Decentralized Cognition, Real-world Robotics and Artificial Life,l Such approaches, however, are often criticized for giving certain aspects of rationality too wide a berth. They focus their attention oil such superficially poor cousins as 'adaptive behaviour ecologically sound perception-action routines. 'fast and frugal heuristics' and fast, fluent real-time real-world action control'.(2) Is this robbery or revelation? Has embodied, embedded' cognitive science simply lost sight of the very phenomena it was meant to explain? Or are we finally string rationality aright, as fully continuous with various forms of simpler, ecologically situated. adaptive response? I distinguish two ways of developing the 'embodied, embedded approach. The first, which does indeed threaten to lose sight of the key targets, is fully committed to a doctrine of biological cognitive incrementalism according to which full-scale human rationality is reached, rather directly, by some series of tweaks to basic biological modes of adaptive response. The second depicts human capacities fur advanced reason as at best the indirect products of such a process. Such capacities, it is argued, depend heavily upon the effects of a special kind of hybridization in which human brains enter into an increasingly potent cascade of genuinely symbiotic relationships with knowledge-rich artifacts and technologies. This latter approach. I finally suggest, does better justice to our peculiar profile, which combines deep biological continuity with an equally deep cognitive discontinuity.
700	embodied	2012	Kemmerer, D; Rudrauf, D; Manzel, K; Tranel, D	Behavioral patterns and lesion sites associated with impaired processing of lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions	CORTEX	To further investigate the neural substrates of lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions, we administered a battery of six tasks to 226 brain-damaged patients with widely distributed lesions in the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The tasks probed lexical and conceptual knowledge of actions in a variety of verbal and non-verbal ways, including naming, word-picture matching, attribute judgments involving both words and pictures, and associative comparisons involving both words and pictures. Of the 226 patients who were studied, 61 failed one or more of the six tasks, with four patients being impaired on the entire battery, and varied numbers of patients being impaired on varied combinations of tasks. Overall, the 61 patients manifested a complex array of associations and dissociations across the six tasks. The lesion sites of 147 of the 226 patients were also investigated, using formal methods for lesion-deficit statistical mapping and power analysis of lesion overlap maps. Significant effects for all six tasks were found in the following left-hemisphere regions: the inferior frontal gyrus; the ventral precentral gyrus, extending superiorly into what are likely to be hand-related primary motor and premotor areas; and the anterior insula. In addition, significant effects for 4-5 tasks were found in not only the regions just mentioned, but also in several other left-hemisphere areas: the ventral postcentral gyrus; the supramarginal gyms; and the posterior middle temporal gyrus. These results converge with previous research on the neural underpinnings of action words and concepts. However, the current study goes considerably beyond most previous investigations by providing extensive behavioral and lesion data for an unusually large and diverse sample of brain-damaged patients, and by incorporating multiple measures of verb comprehension. Regarding theoretical implications, the study provides new support for the Embodied Cognition Framework, which maintains that conceptual knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor systems. (C) 2010 Elsevier Srl. All rights reserved.
701	enactive	2001	Thompson, E; Varela, FJ	Radical embodiment: neural dynamics and consciousness	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	We propose a new approach to the neuroscience of consciousness, growing out of the 'enactive' viewpoint in cognitive science. This approach aims to map the neural substrates of consciousness at the level of large-scale, emergent and transient dynamical patterns of brain activity (rather than at the level of particular circuits or classes of neurons), and it suggests that the processes crucial for consciousness cut across the brain-body-world divisions, rather than being brain-bound neural events. Whereas standard approaches to the neural correlates of consciousness have assumed a one-way causal-explanatory relationship between internal neural representational systems and the contents of consciousness, our approach allows for theories and hypotheses about the two-way or reciprocal relationship between embodied conscious states and local neuronal activity.
702	enactive	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
703	enactive	2009	Fuchs, T; De Jaegher, H	Enactive intersubjectivity: Participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Current theories of social cognition are mainly based on a representationalist view. Moreover, they focus on a rather sophisticated and limited aspect of understanding others, i.e. on how we predict and explain others' behaviours through representing their mental states. Research into the 'social brain' has also favoured a third-person paradigm of social cognition as a passive observation of others' behaviour, attributing it to an inferential, simulative or projective process in the individual brain. In this paper, we present a concept of social understanding as an ongoing, dynamical process of participatory sense-making and mutual incorporation. This process may be described (1) from a dynamical agentive systems point of view as an interaction and coordination of two embodied agents; (2) from a phenomenological approach as a mutual incorporation, i.e. a process in which the lived bodies of both participants extend and form a common intercorporality. Intersubjectivity, it is argued, is not a solitary task of deciphering or simulating the movements of others but means entering a process of embodied interaction and generating common meaning through it. This approach will be further illustrated by an analysis of primary dyadic interaction in early childhood.
704	enactive	2009	Di Paolo, E	Extended Life	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper reformulates some of the questions raised by extended mind theorists from an enactive, life/mind continuity perspective. Because of its reliance on concepts such as autopoiesis, the enactive approach has been deemed internalist and thus incompatible with the extended mind hypothesis. This paper answers this criticism by showing (1) that the relation between organism and cogniser is not one of co-extension, (2) that cognition is a relational phenomenon and thereby has no location, and (3) that the individuality of a cogniser is inevitably linked with the question of its autonomy, a question ignored by the extended mind hypothesis but for which the enactive approach proposes a precise, operational, albeit non-functionalist answer. The paper raises a pespective of embedded and intersecting forms of autonomous identity generation, some of which correspond to the canonical cases discussed in the extended mind literature, but on the whole of wider generality. In addressing these issues, this paper proposes unbiased, non-species specific definitions of cognition, agency and mediation, thus filling in gaps in the extended mind debates that have led to paradoxical situations and a problematic over-reliance on intutions about what counts as cognitive.
705	enactive	2006	Adolphs, R	How do we know the minds of others? Domain-specificity, simulation, and enactive social cognition	BRAIN RESEARCH	In what ways, and to what extent, is social cognition distinguished from cognition in general? And how do data from cognitive neuroscience speak to this question? I review recent findings that argue social cognition may indeed be specialized, and at multiple levels. One particularly interesting respect in which social cognition differs from the rest of cognition is in its close interaction with the social environment. We actively probe other people in order to make inferences about what is going on in their minds (e.g., by asking them questions, and directing our gaze onto them), and we use the minds of other people as a collective resource. Experiments from our own laboratory point to the amygdala as one structure that is critically involved in such processes. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
706	enactive	2009	Thompson, E; Stapleton, M	Making Sense of Sense-Making: Reflections on Enactive and Extended Mind Theories	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper explores some of the differences between the enactive approach in cognitive science and the extended mind thesis. We review the key enactive concepts of autonomy and sense-making. We then focus on the following issues: (1) the debate between internalism and externalism about cognitive processes; (2) the relation between cognition and emotion; (3) the status of the body; and (4) the difference between 'incorporation' and mere 'extension' in the body-mind-environment relation.
707	enactive	2013	Engel, AK; Maye, A; Kurthen, M; Konig, P	Where's the action? The pragmatic turn in cognitive science	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In cognitive science, we are currently witnessing a 'pragmatic turn', away from the traditional representation-centered framework towards a paradigm that focuses on understanding cognition as 'enactive', as skillful activity that involves ongoing interaction with the external world. The key premise of this view is that cognition should not be understood as providing models of the world, but as subserving action and being grounded in sensorimotor coupling. Accordingly, cognitive processes and their underlying neural activity patterns should be studied primarily with respect to their role in action generation. We suggest that such an action-oriented paradigm is not only conceptually viable, but already supported by much experimental evidence. Numerous findings either overtly demonstrate the action-relatedness of cognition or can be re-interpreted in this new framework. We argue that new vistas on the functional relevance and the presumed 'representational' nature of neural processes are likely to emerge from this paradigm.
708	enactive	2011	Froese, T; Di Paolo, EA	The enactive approach Theoretical sketches from cell to society	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	There is a small but growing community of researchers spanning a spectrum of disciplines which are united in rejecting the still dominant computationalist paradigm in favor of the enactive approach. The framework of this approach is centered on a core set of ideas, such as autonomy, sense-making, emergence, embodiment, and experience. These concepts are finding novel applications in a diverse range of areas. One hot topic has been the establishment of an enactive approach to social interaction. The main purpose of this paper is to serve as an advanced entry point into these recent developments. It accomplishes this task in a twofold manner: (i) it provides a succinct synthesis of the most important core ideas and arguments in the theoretical framework of the enactive approach, and (ii) it uses this synthesis to refine the current enactive approach to social interaction. A new operational definition of social interaction is proposed which not only emphasizes the cognitive agency of the individuals and the irreducibility of the interaction process itself, but also the need for jointly co-regulated action. It is suggested that this revised conception of 'socio-cognitive interaction' may provide the necessary middle ground from which to understand the confluence of biological and cultural values in personal action.
709	enactive	2012	Di Paolo, E; De Jaegher, H	The interactive brain hypothesis	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Enactive approaches foreground the role of interpersonal interaction in explanations of social understanding. This motivates, in combination with a recent interest in neuroscientific studies involving actual interactions, the question of how interactive processes relate to neural mechanisms involved in social understanding. We introduce the Interactive Brain Hypothesis (IBH) in order to help map the spectrum of possible relations between social interaction and neural processes. The hypothesis states that interactive experience and skills play enabling roles in both the development and current function of social brain mechanisms, even in cases where social understanding happens in the absence of immediate interaction. We examine the plausibility of this hypothesis against developmental and neurobiological evidence and contrast it with the widespread assumption that mindreading is crucial to all social cognition. We describe the elements of social interaction that bear most directly on this hypothesis and discuss the empirical possibilities open to social neuroscience. We propose that the link between coordination dynamics and social understanding can be best grasped by studying transitions between states of coordination. These transitions form part of the self-organization of interaction processes that characterize the dynamics of social engagement. The patterns and synergies of this self-organization help explain how individuals understand each other. Various possibilities for role-taking emerge during interaction, determining a spectrum of participation. This view contrasts sharply with the observational stance that has guided research in social neuroscience until recently. We also introduce the concept of readiness to interact to describe the practices and dispositions that are summoned in situations of social significance (even if not interactive). This latter idea links interactive factors to more classical observational scenarios.
710	enactive	2008	Gallagher, S	Inference or interaction: social cognition without precursors	PHILOSOPHICAL EXPLORATIONS	In this paper I defend interaction theory (IT) as an alternative to both theory theory (TT) and simulation theory (ST). IT opposes the basic suppositions that both TT and ST depend upon. I argue that the various capacities for primary and secondary intersubjectivity found in infancy and early childhood should not be thought of as precursors to later developing capacities for using folk psychology or simulation routines. They are not replaced or displaced by such capacities in adulthood, but rather continue to operate as our ordinary and everyday basis for social cognition. I also argue that enactive perception rather than implicit simulation is the best model for explaining these capacities.
711	enactive	2009	Froese, T; Ziemke, T	Enactive artificial intelligence: Investigating the systemic organization of life and mind	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The embodied and situated approach to artificial intelligence (Al) has matured and become a viable alternative to traditional computationalist approaches with respect to the practical goal of building artificial agents, which can behave in a robust and flexible manner under changing real-world conditions. Nevertheless, some concerns have recently been raised with regard to the sufficiency of current embodied Al for advancing our scientific understanding of intentional agency. While from an engineering or computer science perspective this limitation might not be relevant, it is of course highly relevant for Al researchers striving to build accurate models of natural cognition. We argue that the biological foundations of enactive cognitive science can provide the conceptual tools that are needed to diagnose more clearly the shortcomings of current embodied Al. In particular, taking an enactive perspective points to the need for Al to take seriously the organismic roots of autonomous agency and sense-making. We identify two necessary systemic requirements, namely constitutive autonomy and adaptivity, which lead us to introduce two design principles of enactive Al. It is argued that the development of such enactive Al poses a significant challenge to current methodologies. However, it also provides a promising way of eventually overcoming the current limitations of embodied Al, especially in terms of providing fuller models of natural embodied cognition. Finally, some practical implications and examples of the two design principles of enactive Al are also discussed. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
712	enactive	2007	Sandini, G; Metta, G; Vernon, D	The iCub Cognitive Humanoid Robot: An Open-System Research Platform for Enactive Cognition	50 YEARS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: ESSAYS DEDICATED TO THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper describes a multi-disciplinary initiative to promote collaborative research in enactive artificial cognitive systems by developing the iCub : a open-systems 53 degree-of-freedom cognitive humanoid robot. At 94 cm tall, the iCub is the same size as a three year-old child. It will be able to crawl on all fours and sit up, its hands will allow dexterous manipulation, and its head and eyes are fully articulated. It has visual, vestibular, auditory, and haptic sensory capabilities. As an open system, the design and documentation of all hardware and software is licensed under the Free Software Foundation GNU licences so that the system can be freely replicated and customized. We begin this paper by outlining the enactive approach to cognition, drawing out the implications for phylogenetic configuration, the necessity for ontogenetic development, and the importance of humanoid embodiment. This is followed by a short discussion of our motivation for adopting an open-systems approach. We proceed to describe the iCub's mechanical and electronic specifications, its software architecture, its cognitive architecture. We conclude by discussing the iCub phylogeny, i.e. the robot's intended innate abilities, and an scenario for ontogenesis based on human neo-natal development.
713	enactive	2013	Gallagher, S	The socially extended mind	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	This paper contrasts conservative and liberal interpretations of the extended mind hypothesis. The liberal view, defended here, considers cognition to be socially extensive, in a way that goes beyond the typical examples (involving notebooks and various technologies) rehearsed in the extended mind literature, and in a way that takes cognition to involve enactive processes (e.g., social affordances), rather than functional supervenience relations. The socially extended mind is in some cases constituted not only in social interactions with others, but also in ways that involve institutional structures, norms, and practices. Some of the common objections to the extended mind are considered in relation to this liberal interpretation. Implications for critical social theory are explored. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
714	enactive	2009	Ziemke, T; Lowe, R	On the Role of Emotion in Embodied Cognitive Architectures: From Organisms to Robots	COGNITIVE COMPUTATION	The computational modeling of emotion has been an area of growing interest in cognitive robotics research in recent years, but also a source of contention regarding how to conceive of emotion and how to model it. In this paper, emotion is characterized as (a) closely connected to embodied cognition, (b) grounded in homeostatic bodily regulation, and (c) a powerful organizational principle-affective modulation of behavioral and cognitive mechanisms-that is 'useful' in both biological brains and robotic cognitive architectures. We elaborate how emotion theories and models centered on core neurological structures in the mammalian brain, and inspired by embodied, dynamical, and enactive approaches in cognitive science, may impact on computational and robotic modeling. In light of the theoretical discussion, work in progress on the development of an embodied cognitive-affective architecture for robots is presented, incorporating aspects of the theories discussed.
715	enactive	2012	Froese, T; Fuchs, T	The extended body: a case study in the neurophenomenology of social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	There is a growing realization in cognitive science that a theory of embodied intersubjectivity is needed to better account for social cognition. We highlight some challenges that must be addressed by attempts to interpret 'simulation theory' in terms of embodiment, and argue for an alternative approach that integrates phenomenology and dynamical systems theory in a mutually informing manner. Instead of 'simulation' we put forward the concept of the 'extended body', an enactive and phenomenological notion that emphasizes the socially mediated nature of embodiment. To illustrate the explanatory potential of this approach, we replicate an agent-based model of embodied social interaction. An analysis of the model demonstrates that the extended body can be explained in terms of mutual dynamical entanglement: inter-bodily resonance between individuals can give rise to self-sustaining interaction patterns that go beyond the behavioral capacities of isolated individuals by modulating their intra-bodily conditions of behavior generation.
716	enactive	2013	McGann, M; De Jaegher, H; Di Paolo, E	Enaction and Psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	The enactive approach to cognitive science aims to provide an account of the mind that is both naturalistic and nonreductive. Psychological activity is viewed not as occurring within the individual organism but in the engagement between the motivated autonomous agent and their context (including their social context). The approach has been developing within the fields of philosophy, artificial life, and computational biology for the past two decades and is now growing within the domain of psychology more generally. In this short paper we outline the conceptual framework of the enactive approach. Illustrative research questions and methods for investigation are also broached, including some existing examples from theoretical, behavioral, and computational modeling research. It is suggested that an enactive psychology provides the basis for the conceptual framework of the enactive approach.
717	enactive	2009	Buehl, MM; Fives, H	Exploring Teachers' Beliefs About Teaching Knowledge: Where Does It Come From? Does It Change?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL EDUCATION	The authors analyzed the open-ended responses of preservice (n = 53) and practicing (n = 57) teachers in terms of themes related to beliefs regarding the source and stability of teaching knowledge. Findings indicate that participants hold a range of beliefs regarding these constructs. Six themes related to the source of teaching knowledge emerged: formal education, formalized bodies of knowledge, observational learning, collaboration with others, enactive experiences, and self-reflection. For beliefs about the stability of teaching knowledge, individuals expressed beliefs about the amount, direction, and quality of knowledge change with regard to various aspects of knowledge (e.g., content knowledge, use and integration of technology, knowledge of development and pedagogy). The authors relate their findings to the existing literature and discuss the implications of the identified beliefs for future research as well as teacher education, development, and practice.
718	enactive	1999	Baerveldt, C; Verheggen, T	Enactivism and the experiential reality of culture: Rethinking the epistemological basis of cultural psychology	CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY	The key problem of cultural psychology comprises a paradox: while people believe they act on the basis of their own authentic experience, cultural psychologists observe their behavior to be socially patterned. It is argued that, in order to account for those patterns, cultural psychology should take human experience as its analytical starting point. Nevertheless, there is a tendency within cultural psychology to either neglect human experience, by focusing exclusively on discourse, or to consider the structure of this experience to originate in an already produced cultural order. For an alternative approach, we turn to the enactive view of cognition developed by Humberto Maturana and Francisco Varela. Their theory of autonomy can provide the epistemological basis for a cultural psychology that explains how experience can become socially patterned in the first place. Cultural Life forms are then considered as consensually coordinated, embodied practices.
719	enactive	2008	Vernon, D	Cognitive vision: The case for embodied perception	IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING	This paper considers arguments for the necessity of embodiment in cognitive vision systems. We begin by delineating the scope of cognitive vision, and follow this by a survey of the various approaches that can be taken to the realization of artificial cognitive vision systems, focussing on cognitive aspects. These range from the cognitivist symbolic representational paradigm, through connectionist systems and self-organizing dynamical systems, to the enactive cognition paradigm. We then consider various arguments for embodiment, beginning with paradigm-specific cases, and concluding with a paradigm-independent argument for embodied perception and cognition. We explore briefly different forms of embodiment and their relevance to the foregoing viewpoints. We highlight some of the key problems associated with embodied cognitive vision, including the phylogeny/ontogeny trade-off in artificial systems and the developmental limitations imposed by real-time environmental coupling. Finally, we conclude by considering some aspects of natural cognitive systems to see how they can provide insights to help in addressing these problems. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
720	enactive	2009	McGann, M; De Jaegher, H	Self-other contingencies: Enacting social perception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Can we see the expressiveness of other people's gestures, hear the intentions in their voice, see the emotions in their posture? Traditional theories of social cognition still say we cannot because intentions and emotions for them are hidden away inside and we do not have direct access to them. Enactive theories still have no idea because they have so far mainly focused on perception of our physical world. We surmise, however, that the latter hold promise since, in trying to understand cognition, enactive theory focuses on the embodied engagements of a cognizer with his world. In this paper, we attempt an answer for the question What is social perception in an enactive account? In enaction, perception is conceived as a skill, crucially involving action (perception is action and action is perception), an ability to work successfully within the set of regularities, or contingencies that characterize a given domain. If this is the case, then social perception should be a social skill. Having thus transformed the question of what social perception is into that of what social skill is, we examine the concept of social contingencies and the manner in which social skills structure-both constrain and empower-social interaction. Some of the implications of our account for how social and physical perception differ, the role of embodiment in social interaction and the distinction between our approach and other social contingency theories are also addressed.
721	enactive	2009	Krueger, JW	Enacting Musical Experience	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	I argue for all enactive account of musical experience that is, the experience of listening 'deeply'(i.e., sensitively and understandingly) to a piece of music. The guiding question is: what do we do when we listen 'deeply' to music? I argue that these music listening episodes are, in fact, doings. They are instances of active perceiving, robust sensorimotor engagements with and manipulations of sonic structures within musical pieces. Music is thus experiential art, and in Nietzsche's words, 'we listen to music with our muscles'. This paper attempts to explicate and defend this claim. First, I discuss enactive approaches to consciousness and cognition generally. Next, I apply an enactive model of perceptual consciousness to the experience of listening to music. To clarify what is at stake, I use Peter Kivy's 'enhanced formalism' as a philosophical foil. I then look at how the animate body shapes musical experience.
722	enactive	2008	Hirschfeld, RR; Bernerth, JB	Mental Efficacy and Physical Efficacy at the Team Level: Inputs and Outcomes Among Newly Formed Action Teams	JOURNAL OF APPLIED PSYCHOLOGY	The authors demarcated mental efficacy and physical efficacy at the team level, and they explored these 2 factors as outcomes of 4 potential inputs and as predictors of 3 outcomes among 110 newly formed action teams in a military setting. Both types of team efficacy benefited front greater learn size and an initial experience of enactive mastery, but they were not influenced by teams' female representation or knowledge pool. In terms of predictive contributions, both mental and physical efficacy facilitated internal social cohesion. yet only mental efficacy promoted problem solving and observed teamwork effectiveness.
723	enactive	2016	Hohwy, J	The Self-Evidencing Brain	NOUS	An exciting theory in neuroscience is that the brain is an organ for prediction error minimization (PEM). This theory is rapidly gaining influence and is set to dominate the science of mind and brain in the years to come. PEM has extreme explanatory ambition, and profound philosophical implications. Here, I assume the theory, briefly explain it, and then I argue that PEM implies that the brain is essentially self-evidencing. This means it is imperative to identify an evidentiary boundary between the brain and its environment. This boundary defines the mind-world relation, opens the door to skepticism, and makes the mind transpire as more inferentially secluded and neurocentrically skull-bound than many would nowadays think. Therefore, PEM somewhat deflates contemporary hypotheses that cognition is extended, embodied and enactive; however, it can nevertheless accommodate the kinds of cases that fuel these hypotheses.
724	enactive	2012	Froese, T	From adaptive behavior to human cognition: a review of Enaction	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Critics of the paradigm of enaction have long argued that enactive principles will be unable to account for the traditional domain of orthodox cognitive science, namely "higher-level" cognition and specifically human cognition. Moreover, even many of the paradigm's "lower-level" insights into embodiment and situatedness appear to be amenable to a functionalist reinterpretation. In this review, I show on the basis of the recently published collection of papers, Enaction, that the paradigm of enaction has (a) a unique foundation in the notion of sense-making that places fundamental limits on the scope of functionalist appropriation; (b) a unique perspective on higher-level cognition that sets important new research directions without the need for the concept of mental representation; (c) a new concept of specifically human cognition in terms of second-order sense-making; and (d) a rich variety of approaches to explain the evolutionary, historical, and developmental origins of this sophisticated human ability. I also indicate how studies of the role of embodiment for abstract human cognition can strengthen their position by reconceiving their notion of embodiment in enactive terms.
725	enactive	2012	Ward, D; Stapleton, M	Es are good Cognition as enacted, embodied, embedded, affective and extended	CONSCIOUSNESS IN INTERACTION: THE ROLE OF THE NATURAL AND SOCIAL CONTEXT IN SHAPING CONSCIOUSNESS	We present a specific elaboration and partial defense of the claims that cognition is enactive, embodied, embedded, affective and (potentially) extended. According to the view we will defend, the enactivist claim that perception and cognition essentially depend upon the cognizer's interactions with their environment is fundamental. If a particular instance of this kind of dependence obtains, we will argue, then it follows that cognition is essentially embodied and embedded, that the underpinnings of cognition are inextricable from those of affect, that the phenomenon of cognition itself is essentially bound up with affect, and that the possibility of cognitive extension depends upon the instantiation of a specific mode of skillful interrelation between cognizer and environment. Thus, if cognition is enactive then it is also embodied, embedded, affective and potentially extended.
726	enactive	2012	Froese, T; Gallagher, S	Getting interaction theory (IT) together Integrating developmental, phenomenological, enactive, and dynamical approaches to social interaction	INTERACTION STUDIES	We argue that progress in our scientific understanding of the 'social mind' is hampered by a number of unfounded assumptions. We single out the widely shared assumption that social behavior depends solely on the capacities of an individual agent. In contrast, both developmental and phenomenological studies suggest that the personal-level capacity for detached 'social cognition' (conceived as a process of theorizing about and/or simulating another mind) is a secondary achievement that is dependent on more immediate processes of embodied social interaction. We draw on the enactive approach to cognitive science to further clarify this strong notion of 'social interaction' in theoretical terms. In addition, we indicate how this interaction theory (IT) could eventually be formalized with the help of a dynamical systems perspective on the interaction process, especially by making use of evolutionary robotics modeling. We conclude that bringing together the methods and insights of developmental, phenomenological, enactive and dynamical approaches to social interaction can provide a promising framework for future research.
727	enactive	2008	Gallagher, S	Intersubjectivity in perception	CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY REVIEW	The embodied, embedded, enactive, and extended approaches to cognition explicate many important details for a phenomenology of perception, and are consistent with some of the traditional phenomenological analyses. Theorists working in these areas, however, often fail to provide an account of how intersubjectivity might relate to perception. This paper suggests some ways in which intersubjectivity is important for an adequate account of perception.
728	enactive	2015	Cusack, JP; Williams, JHG; Neri, P	Action Perception Is Intact in Autism Spectrum Disorder	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Autistic traits span a wide spectrum of behavioral departures from typical function. Despite the heterogeneous nature of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), there have been attempts at formulating unified theoretical accounts of the associated impairments in social cognition. A class of prominent theories capitalizes on the link between social interaction and visual perception: effective interaction with others often relies on discrimination of subtle nonverbal cues. It has been proposed that individuals with ASD may rely on poorer perceptual representations of other people's actions as returned by dysfunctional visual circuitry and that this, in turn, may lead to less effective interpretation of those actions for social behavior. It remains unclear whether such perceptual deficits exist in ASD: the evidence currently available is limited to specific aspects of action recognition, and the reported deficits are often attributable to cognitive factors that may not be strictly visual (e.g., attention). We present results from an exhaustive set of measurements spanning the entire action processing hierarchy, from motion detection to action interpretation, designed to factor out effects that are not selectively relevant to this function. Our results demonstrate that the ASD perceptual system returns functionally intact signals for interpreting other people's actions adequately; these signals can be accessed effectively when autistic individuals are prompted and motivated to do so under controlled conditions. However, they may fail to exploit them adequately during real-life social interactions.
729	enactive	2012	Steffensen, SV	Care and conversing in dialogical systems	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article promotes a point of view on human interaction in terms of dialogical systems. The approach draws on recent, so-called third wave, developments in cognitive science. After an introduction to three waves in cognitive science, and their counterparts in linguistics, the article is placed in a tradition that is ecological, embodied and distributed. Its specific take on human interaction pursues these perspectives by claiming that language can neither be reduced to social rules in the micro-sociological domain, nor to biological properties of the individual being. As an alternative to these two positions, a theory of dialogical systems is developed, on the basis of current thinking within the enactive program (e.g. De Jaegher and Di Paolo, 2007), the distributed language movement (e.g. Cowley, 2011b), and values-realizing theory (e.g. Hodges, 2009). Dialogical systems are systems of co-present human beings engaged in interactivity that bring forth situated behavioural coordination (or a communicative, structural coupling). Dialogical systems, however, have emergent properties irreducible to individual actions or microsocial norms. Among the emergent properties one find a tendency to establish and uphold equilibriums that balance between various, at times opposing, values and tensions. This approach is exemplified through an analysis of a real-life conversation between a mother and a health visitor. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
730	enactive	2013	Matyja, JR; Schiavio, A	Enactive Music Cognition: Background and Research Themes	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context circle The past few years have presented us with a growing amount of theoretical research (yet that is often based on neuroscientific developments) in the field of enactive music cognition. > Problem circle Current cognitivist and embodied approaches to music cognition suffer, in our opinion, from a too firm commitment to the explanatory role of mental representations in musical experience. This particular problem can be solved by adopting an enactive approach to music cognition. > Method circle We present and compare cognitivist, embodied and enactive approaches to music cognition and review the current research in enactive music cognition. > Results circle We find that, in general, the enactive approaches to human musicality are capable of explaining the basic relationship between a musical subject and a musical object according to a pre-conceptual and pre-linguistic form of understanding related to bodily motor expertise. This explanation does not rely on on sophisticated forms of representation. > Implications circle Proponents of enactive music cognition should, in our opinion, focus on providing a consistent explanation of the most basic level of musical understanding. > Constructivist content circle We hope to invite the constructivist community to engage with the discussions on the intersection between music and enactivism.
731	enactive	2012	de Bruin, LC; Kastner, L	Dynamic Embodied Cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In this article, we investigate the merits of an enactive view of cognition for the contemporary debate about social cognition. If enactivism is to be a genuine alternative to classic cognitivism, it should be able to bridge the "cognitive gap", i.e. provide us with a convincing account of those higher forms of cognition that have traditionally been the focus of its cognitivist opponents. We show that, when it comes to social cognition, current articulations of enactivism are-despite their celebrated successes in explaining some cases of social interaction-not yet up to the task. This is because they (1) do not pay sufficient attention to the role of offline processing or "decoupling", and (2) obscure the cognitive gap by overemphasizing the role of phenomenology. We argue that the main challenge for the enactive view will be to acknowledge the importance of both coupled (online) and decoupled (offline) processes for basic and advanced forms of (social) cognition. To meet this challenge, we articulate a dynamic embodied view of cognition. We illustrate the fruitfulness of this approach by recourse to recent findings on false belief understanding.
732	enactive	2011	Froese, T	From Second-order Cybernetics to Enactive Cognitive Science: Varela's Turn From Epistemology to Phenomenology	SYSTEMS RESEARCH AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	Varela is well known in the systems sciences for his work on second-order cybernetics, biology of cognition and especially autopoietic theory. His concern during this period was to find an appropriate epistemological foundation for the self-reference inherent in life and mind. In his later years, Varela began to develop the so-called enactive approach to cognitive science, which sets itself apart from other sciences by promoting a careful consideration of concrete experiential insights. His final efforts were thus dedicated to finding a pragmatic phenomenological foundation for life and mind. It is argued that Varela's experiential turn-from epistemology to phenomenology-can be seen as a natural progression that builds on many ideas that were already implicit in second-order cybernetics and biology of cognition. It is also suggested that the rigorous study of conscious experience may enable us to refine our theories and systemic concepts of life, mind and sociality. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
733	enactive	2009	Sinigaglia, C	Mirror in Action	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Several authors have recently pointed out the hypermentalism of the standard mindreading models, arguing for the need of an embodied and enactive approach to social cognition. Various attempts to provide an account of the primary ways of interacting with others, however, have fallen short of allowing for both what kind of intentional engagement is crucial in the basic forms of social navigation and also what neural mechanisms can be thought to underpin them. The aim of the paper is to counter this fault by showing that most of the primary ways of making sense of others are motor in nature and rooted in a specific brain mechanism: the mirror mechanism. I shall argue that the mirror-based making sense of others not only can be construed within the enactive approach to social cognition, but also allows us to reline it, supplying a plausible and unitary account of the early forms of social interaction.
734	enactive	2015	Cuffari, E; Paolo, E; Jaegher, H	From participatory sense-making to language: there and back again	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The enactive approach to cognition distinctively emphasizes autonomy, adaptivity, agency, meaning, experience, and interaction. Taken together, these principles can provide the new sciences of language with a comprehensive philosophical framework: languaging as adaptive social sense-making. This is a refinement and advancement on Maturana's idea of languaging as a manner of living. Overcoming limitations in Maturana's initial formulation of languaging is one of three motivations for this paper. Another is to give a response to skeptics who challenge enactivism to connect "lower-level" sense-making with "higher-order" sophisticated moves like those commonly ascribed to language. Our primary goal is to contribute a positive story developed from the enactive account of social cognition, participatory sense-making. This concept is put into play in two different philosophical models, which respectively chronicle the logical and ontogenetic development of languaging as a particular form of social agency. Languaging emerges from the interplay of coordination and exploration inherent in the primordial tensions of participatory sense-making between individual and interactive norms; it is a practice that transcends the self-other boundary and enables agents to regulate self and other as well as interaction couplings. Linguistic sense-makers are those who negotiate interactive and internalized ways of meta-regulating the moment-to-moment activities of living and cognizing. Sense-makers in enlanguaged environments incorporate sensitivities, roles, and powers into their unique yet intelligible linguistic bodies. We dissolve the problematic dichotomies of high/low, online/offline, and linguistic/nonlinguistic cognition, and we provide new boundary criteria for specifying languaging as a prevalent kind of human social sense-making.
735	enactive	2015	Steffensen, SV	Distributed Language and Dialogism: notes on non-locality, sense-making and interactivity	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This article discusses the Distributed Language Approach (DLA) vis-a-vis Dialogism, as it is presented by Per Linell (2009, 2013, etc.). DLA is a naturalistic and anti-representational approach to language that builds on recent developments in the cognitive sciences. Dialogism (or dialogical metatheory in Linell's version), in contrast, is a meta-theoretical, "ecumenical" framework that draws on phenomenology, sociocultural theory, symbolic interactionism, ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis. After an introduction to the two positions (Section 2), the article aims to clarify three aspects of a distributed view of language vis-a-vis the tradition of Dialogism. This clarification takes a starting point in Per Linell's (2013) review article on the book Distributed Language (Cowley, 2011a) and other contributions to DLA, including Cowleyet al. (2010) and Hodges et al. (2012b). First, the article discusses a central principle in DLA, "the principle of non-locality," and Linell's interpretation of it; more generally, this is a discussion of contrasting views on "the locus of language" and derived methodological issues (Section 3). Second, the article addresses Linell's critique of DLA as rooted in biosemiotics and in theories of organism-environment systems. It is argued that Linell's emphasis on sense-making in social interaction entails a dubious distinction between human sociality and human biology and human ecology. This distinction relates to the question of how conspecific Others acquire their status as prominent parts of the sense-maker's environment (Section 4). Third, and in continuation of the previous point, the article discusses the two frameworks' different ways of developing a non-individualist approach to human interaction. It is argued that the two frameworks differ in how they account for the constitution of the Self-Other relation (Section 5). In the conclusion (Section 6), it is discussed how the relation between the two approaches is most adequately conceptualised. It is considered what it implies to see the relation as complementary, competitive, or antagonistic. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
736	enactive	2014	Schmalzl, L; Crane-Godreau, MA; Payne, P	Movement-based embodied contemplative practices: definitions and paradigms	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Over the past decades, cognitive neuroscience has witnessed a shift from predominantly disembodied and computational views of the mind, to more embodied and situated views of the mind. These postulate that mental functions cannot be fully understood without reference to the physical body and the environment in which they are experienced. Within the field of contemplative science, the directing of attention to bodily sensations has so far mainly been studied in the context of seated meditation and mindfulness practices. However, the cultivation of interoceptive, proprioceptive and kinesthetic awareness is also said to lie at the core of many movement-based contemplative practices such as Yoga, Qigong, and Tai Chi. In addition, it likely plays a key role in the efficacy of modern somatic therapeutic techniques such as the Feldenkrais Method and the Alexander Technique. In the current paper we examine how these practices are grounded in the concepts of embodiment, movement and contemplation, as we look at them primarily through the lens of an enactive approach to cognition. Throughout, we point to a series of challenges that arise when Western scientists study practices that are based on a non-dualistic view of mind and body.
737	enactive	2012	Reybrouck, M	Musical Sense-Making and the Concept of Affordance: An Ecosemiotic and Experiential Approach	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article is interdisciplinary in its claims. Evolving around the ecological concept of affordance, it brings together pragmatics and ecological psychology. Starting from the theoretical writings of Peirce, Dewey and James, the biosemiotic claims of von Uexkull, Gibson's ecological approach to perception and some empirical evidence from recent neurobiological research, it elaborates on the concepts of experiential and enactive cognition as applied to music. In order to provide an operational description of this approach, it introduces some conceptual tools from the domain of cybernetics with a major focus on the concept of circularity, which links perception to action in a continuous process of sense-making and interaction with the environment. As such, it is closely related to some pragmatic, biosemiotic and ecosemiotic claims which can be subsumed under the general notion of functional significance. An attempt is made to apply this conceptual framework to the process of musical sense-making which involves the realisation of systemic cognition in the context of epistemic interactions that are grounded in our biology and possibilities for adaptive control. Central in this approach is the concept of coping with the environment, or, in musical terms, to perceive the sounding music in terms of what it affords for the consummation of musical behaviour.
738	enactive	2012	Gallagher, S; Miyahara, K	Neo-Pragmatism and Enactive Intentionality	ACTION, PERCEPTION AND THE BRAIN: ADAPTATION AND CEPHALIC EXPRESSION	0
739	enactive	2010	McGann, M	Perceptual Modalities Modes of Presentation or Modes of Interaction?	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Perceptual modalities have been traditionally considered the product of dedicated biological systems producing information for higher cognitive processing. Psychological and neuropsychological evidence is offered which undermines this point of view and an alternative account of modality from the enactive approach to understanding cognition is suggested. Under this view, a perceptual modality is a stable form of perception which is structured not just by the biological sensitivities of the agent, but by their goals and the set of skills or expertise which they are deploying at a given time. Such a view suggests that there is no such thing as an experience that is purely visual, auditory, or otherwise modal and that our attempts to understand consciousness and the mind must be conducted within a framework that provides an account of embodied, goal-directed adaptive coping with the world.
740	enactive	2005	McGee, K	Enactive Cognitive Science. Part 1: Background and Research Themes	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Purpose: This paper is a brief introduction to enactive cognitive science: a description of some of the main research concerns; some examples of how such concerns have been realized in actual research; some of its research methods and proposed explanatory mechanisms and models; some of the potential as both a theoretical and applied science; and several of the major open research questions. Findings: Enactive cognitive science is an approach to the study of mind that seeks to explain how the structures and mechanisms of autonomous cognitive systems can arise and participate in the generation and maintenance of viable perceiver-dependent worlds - rather than more conventional cognitivist efforts, such as the attempt to explain cognition in terms of the "recovery" of (pre-given, timeless) features of The (objectively-existing and accessible) World. As such, enactive cognitive science is resonant with radical constructivism. Research implications: As with other scientific efforts conducted within a constructivist orientation, enactive cognitive science is broadly "conventional" in its scientific methodology. That is, there is a strong emphasis on testable hypotheses, empirical observation, supportable mechanisms and models, rigorous experimental methods, acceptable criteria of validation, and the like. Nonetheless, this approach to cognitive science does also raise a number of specific questions about the scope of amenable phenomena (e.g., meaning, consciousness, etc.) - and it also raises questions of whether such a perspective requires an expansion of what is typically considered within the purview of scientific method (e.g., the role of the observer/scientist).
741	enactive	2015	Schiavio, A; Hoffding, S	Playing together without communicating? A pre-reflective and enactive account of joint musical performance	MUSICAE SCIENTIAE	In this article we explore the role of pre-reflective, embodied, and interactive intentionality in joint musical performance. Putting together insights from phenomenology and current theories in cognitive science, we present a case study based on qualitative interviews with the Danish String Quartet (DSQ). A total of 12 hours of interviews was recorded, drawing on ethnography-related methodologies during tours with the DSQ in Denmark and England in 2012 and 2013, focusing mainly on their experience of perception, intentionality, absorption, selfhood and intersubjectivity. The analysis emerging from our data suggests that expert musicians' experience of collective music-making is rooted in the dynamical patterns of perception and action that co-constitute the sonic environment(s) in which they are embedded, and that the role of attention and other reflective processes should therefore be reconsidered. In putting forward our view on ensemble cohesion, we challenge Keller's and Seddon and Biasutti's influential positions, maintaining that the cognitive processes at play in such intersubjective context are grounded in the concrete (inter)actions of the players, and are not reducible to processes and structures in the head'. We argue that this is a significant step forward from more traditional accounts of joint musical performances, which often involve mental representations as principal explanatory tools - downplaying the embodied and participatory dimension of music-making - and we conclude that ensemble performance can take place without attention to either shared goals, or to the other ensemble musicians. We finally suggest that if other researchers want to understand what it is like to play with other musicians then they must shift their focus from Joint Musical Attention (JMA) to Joint Musical Experience (JME), facilitating the development of more ecologically valid models of collective musical performance.
742	enactive	2014	Froese, T; Iizuka, H; Ikegami, T	Using minimal human-computer interfaces for studying the interactive development of social awareness	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to the enactive approach to cognitive science, perception is essentially a skillful engagement with the world. Learning how to engage via a human-computer interface (HCI) can therefore be taken as an instance of developing a new mode of experiencing. Similarly, social perception is theorized to be primarily constituted by skillful engagement between people, which implies that it is possible to investigate the origins and development of social awareness using multi-user HCIs. We analyzed the trial-by-trial objective and subjective changes in sociality that took place during a perceptual crossing experiment in which embodied interaction between pairs of adults was mediated over a minimalist haptic HCI. Since that study required participants to implicitly relearn how to mutually engage so as to perceive each other's presence, we hypothesized that there would be indications that the initial developmental stages of social awareness were recapitulated. Preliminary results reveal that, despite the lack of explicit feedback about task performance, there was a trend for the clarity of social awareness to increase over time. We discuss the methodological challenges involved in evaluating whether this trend was characterized by distinct developmental stages of objective behavior and subjective experience.
743	enactive	2014	Hutto, DD; Kirchhoff, MD; Myin, E	Extensive enactivism: why keep it all in?	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Radical enactive and embodied approaches to cognitive science oppose the received view in the sciences of the mind in denying that cognition fundamentally involves contentful mental representation. This paper argues that the fate of representationalism in cognitive science matters significantly to how best to understand the extent of cognition. It seeks to establish that any move away from representationalism toward pure, empirical functionalism fails to provide a substantive "mark of the cognitive" and is bereft of other adequate means for individuating cognitive activity. It also argues that giving proper attention to the way the folk use their psychological concepts requires questioning the legitimacy of commonsense functionalism. In place of extended functionalism empirical or commonsensical-we promote the fortunes of extensive enactivism, clarifying in which ways it is distinct from notions of extended mind and distributed cognition.
744	enactive	2013	Froese, T; Woodward, A; Ikegami, T	Turing instabilities in biology, culture, and consciousness? On the enactive origins of symbolic material culture	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	It has been argued that the worldwide prevalence of certain types of geometric visual patterns found in prehistoric art can be best explained by the common experience of these patterns as geometric hallucinations during altered states of consciousness induced by shamanic ritual practices. And in turn the worldwide prevalence of these types of hallucinations has been explained by appealing to humanity's shared neurobiological embodiment. Moreover, it has been proposed that neural network activity can exhibit similar types of spatiotemporal patterns, especially those caused by Turing instabilities under disinhibited, non-ordinary conditions. Altered states of consciousness thus provide a suitable pivot point from which to investigate the complex relationships between symbolic material culture, first-person experience, and neurobiology. We critique prominent theories of these relationships. Drawing inspiration from neurophenomenology, we sketch the beginnings of an alternative, enactive approach centered on the concepts of sense-making, value, and sensorimotor decoupling.
745	enactive	2013	Lin, JH	Do video games exert stronger effects on aggression than film? The role of media interactivity and identification on the association of violent content and aggressive outcomes	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	This study investigated whether media interactivity would influence the short-term effects of violent content on audience aggression. The general aggression model, social cognitive theory, and character identification offered the theoretical framework. A random sample of 102 male college students were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: video game playing, recorded game-play watching, or movie watching. The results indicated that video game players (mediated enactive experience) experienced greater increases in aggressive affect, aggressive cognition, and physiological arousal than participants who watched recorded game play or comparable movie scenes (mediated observational experience). The study indicated that media interactivity in video game exacerbated the violent effect on short-term, aggressive responses. Character identification did not mediate the effect of media interactivity on aggression. Future studies should incorporate more comprehensive measures of character identification to investigate inconsistent findings regarding media interactivity and identification. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
746	enactive	2011	Morse, AF; Herrera, C; Clowes, R; Montebelli, A; Ziemke, T	The role of robotic modelling in cognitive science	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	From the perspective of cognitive robotics, this paper presents a modern interpretation of Newell's (1973) reasoning and suggestions for why and how cognitive psychologists should develop models of cognitive phenomena. We argue that the shortcomings of current cognitive modelling approaches are due in significant part to a lack of exactly the kind of integration required for the development of embodied autonomous robotics. Moreover we suggest that considerations of embodiment, situatedness, and autonomy, intrinsic to cognitive robotics, provide an appropriate basis for the integration and theoretic cumulation that Newell argued was necessary for psychology to mature. From this perspective we analyse the role of embodiment and modes of situatedness in terms of integration, cognition, emotion, and autonomy. Four complementary perspectives on embodied and situated cognitive science are considered in terms of their potential to contribute to cognitive robotics, cognitive science, and psychological theorizing: minimal cognition and organization, enactive perception and sensorimotor contingency, homeostasis and emotion, and social embedding. In combination these perspectives provide a framework for cognitive robotics, not only wholly compatible with the original aims of cognitive modelling, but as a more appropriate methodology than those currently in common use within psychology. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
747	enactive	2013	Stapleton, M	Steps to a "Properly Embodied" cognitive science	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Cognitive systems research has predominantly been guided by the historical distinction between emotion and cognition, and has focused its efforts on modelling the "cognitive" aspects of behaviour. While this initially meant modelling only the control system of cognitive creatures, with the advent of "embodied" cognitive science this expanded to also modelling the interactions between the control system and the external environment. What did not seem to change with this embodiment revolution, however, was the attitude towards affect and emotion in cognitive science. This paper argues that cognitive systems research is now beginning to integrate these aspects of natural cognitive systems into cognitive science proper, not in virtue of traditional "embodied cognitive science", which focuses predominantly on the body's gross morphology, but rather in virtue of research into the interoceptive, organismic basis of natural cognitive systems. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
748	enactive	2008	Hutto, DD	Limited engagements and narrative extensions	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	E-approaches to the mind stress the embodied, embedded and enactive nature of mental phenomena. In their more radical, non-representational variants these approaches offer innovative and powerful new ways of understanding fundamental modes of intersubjective social interaction: I-approaches. While promising, E and I accounts have natural limits. In particular, they are unable to explain human competence in making sense of reasons for actions in folk-psychological terms. In this paper I outline the core features of the 'Narrative Practice Hypothesis' (NPH), showing how it might take up that burden in a way which complements non-representationalist E and I accounts. I conclude by addressing a new-order eliminativist challenge from Ratcliffe that questions, inter alia, the very idea that there is anything like a well-defined folk-psychological competence that needs explaining, thereby rendering the NPH otiose. Additionally, I respond to Ratcliffe's claim that the relevant structures needed for the development of that competence do not reveal themselves in relevant narratives, rendering the NPH's developmental story impossible.
749	enactive	2016	Garcia, AM; Ibanez, A	A touch with words: Dynamic synergies between manual actions and language	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Manual actions are a hallmark of humanness. Their underlying neural circuitry gives rise to species specific skills and interacts with language processes. In particular, multiple studies show that hand-related expressions - verbal units evoking manual activity - variously affect concurrent manual actions, yielding apparently controversial results (interference, facilitation, or null effects) in varied time windows. Through a systematic review of 108 experiments, we show that such effects are driven by several factors, such as the level of verbal processing, action complexity, and the time-lag between linguistic and motor processes. We reconcile key empirical patterns by introducing the Hand-Action-Network Dynamic Language Embodiment (HANDLE) model, an integrative framework based on neural coupling dynamics and predictive-coding principles. To conclude, we assess HANDLE against the backdrop of other action-cognition theories, illustrate its potential applications to understand high-level deficits in motor disorders, and discuss key challenges for further development. In sum, our work aligns with the 'pragmatic turn', moving away from passive and static representationalist perspectives to a more dynamic, enactive, and embodied conceptualization of cognitive processes. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
750	enactive	2015	van der Schyff, D	Music as a manifestation of life: exploring enactivism and the 'eastern perspective' for music education	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The enactive approach to cognition is developed in the context of music and music education. I discuss how this embodied point of view affords a relational and biocultural perspective on music that decentres the Western focus on language, symbol and representation as the fundamental arbiters of meaning. I then explore how this 'life-based' approach to cognition and meaning-making offers a welcome alternative to standard Western academic approaches to music education. More specifically, I consider how the enactive perspective may aid in developing deeper ecological understandings of the transformative, extended and interpenetrative nature of the embodied musical mind; and thus help (re)connect students and teachers to the lived experience of their own learning and teaching. Following this, I examine related concepts associated with Buddhist psychology in order to develop possibilities for a contemplative music pedagogy. To conclude, I consider how an enactive-contemplative perspective may help students and teachers awaken to the possibilities of music education as 'ontological education.' That is, through a deeper understanding of 'music as a manifestation of life' rediscover their primordial nature as autopoietic and world-making creatures and thus engage more deeply with musicality as a means of forming richer and more compassionate relationships with their peers, their communities and the 'natural' and cultural worlds they inhabit.
751	enactive	2014	Barrett, L; Pollet, TV; Stulp, G	From computers to cultivation: reconceptualizing evolutionary psychology	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Does evolutionary theorizing have a role in psychology? This is a more contentious issue than one might imagine, given that, as evolved creatures, the answer must surely be yes. The contested nature of evolutionary psychology lies not in our status as evolved beings, but in the extent to which evolutionary ideas add value to studies of human behavior, and the rigor with which these ideas are tested. This, in turn, is linked to the framework in which particular evolutionary ideas are situated. While the framing of the current research topic places the brain-as-computer metaphor in opposition to evolutionary psychology, the most prominent school of thought in this field (born out of cognitive psychology, and often known as the Santa Barbara school) is entirely wedded to the computational theory of mind as an explanatory framework. Its unique aspect is to argue that the mind consists of a large number of functionally specialized (i.e., domain-specific) computational mechanisms, or modules (the massive modularity hypothesis). Far from offering an alternative to, or an improvement on, the current perspective, we argue that evolutionary psychology is a mainstream computational theory, and that its arguments for domain-specificity often rest on shaky premises. We then go on to suggest that the various forms of e-cognition (i.e., embodied, embedded, enactive) represent a true alternative to standard computational approaches, with an emphasis on "cognitive integration" or the "extended mind hypothesis" in particular. We feel this offers the most promise for human psychology because it incorporates the social and historical processes that are crucial to human "mind-making" within an evolutionarily informed framework. In addition to linking to other research areas in psychology, this approach is more likely to form productive links to other disciplines within the social sciences, not least by encouraging a healthy pluralism in approach.
752	enactive	2013	Cash, M	Cognition without borders: "Third wave" socially distributed cognition and relational autonomy	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	I contrast somewhat individualist arguments for first-wave "extended cognition" and second-wave "integrationist cognition" with what we can identify as a third wave of arguments for "socially and culturally distributed cognition", in which individual cognition takes place within, is supported by, and is mutually co-constructed with larger social, institutional, normative, political and technological systems and cultural practices. Such accounts must respond to the objection of "cognitive bloat". When does a processes count as my cognitive process? This objection is not best rebutted, as Clark often attempts, by limiting extension to processes that play a similar role to internal brain processes. Nor is it best addressed, as Gallagher (2013) does, by appealing to enactive engagement as grounding "ownership" of a process. Rather, the solution is in our shared, evolving, normative and social practices of holding people responsible for their actions. I support this by drawing parallels between socially distributed cognition and feminist relational theory, which has already addressed the issue of individual autonomy within social practices that shape individuals' selves, values, and capacities. I end by high-lighting political and ethical concerns raised by this conception of HEC regarding differential distribution of cognitive resources. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
753	enactive	2013	Moran, N	Music, bodies and relationships: An ethnographic contribution to embodied cognition studies	PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC	This article sets out the methodology and results of part of an ethnographic study of North Indian music performance where qualitative interviews were analyzed with grounded theory to explore how musicians conceive of musical communication. The findings highlight the importance of socially-responsive movement cues that musicians use to co-ordinate their participation in musical events. Effective musical communication, as explored in this article, is seen to depend on the manifestation and maintenance of the relationships between participants. This analytical attention to the moment-by-moment processes of interaction that musicians must engage in chimes with current enactive approaches to cognition. The article concludes by discussing the role of music research in the development of such work, suggesting that empirical research into music as social interaction could provide important insights for an enactive understanding of human cognition.
754	enactive	2008	Talero, ML	The experiential workspace and the limits of empirical investigation	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	In this paper, I develop the notion of the experiential workspace, or the phenomenal setting generated by the coupling between the enactive body and its affordance-laden environment, in order to carry out a fine-grained analysis of enactive experiential phenomena, in particular those of ordinary lived experience. My purpose is to shed light on some of the ways that empirical methodologies are intrinsically limited in their ability to capture the native phenomena of enactive, embodied experience. Drawing on the work of Merleau-Ponty, I argue that the experiential workspace is characterized by dynamic mutability, emergent norms, and epistemic openness - characteristics that are transphenomenal in nature and thus resistant to empirical measurement. Using concepts from the work of developmental psychologist Lev Vygotsky (1978) and feminist philosopher Iris Marion Young (1998), I will show how our embeddedness in an intersubjective world makes the experiential workspace a mercurial, labile phenomenon, characterized by inherently transphenomenal features that are resistant to naturalistic analysis or modelling.
755	enactive	2015	Hutto, DD; Kirchhoff, MD; Abrahamson, D	The Enactive Roots of STEM: Rethinking Educational Design in Mathematics	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	New and radically reformative thinking about the enactive and embodied basis of cognition holds out the promise of moving forward age-old debates about whether we learn and how we learn. The radical enactive, embodied view of cognition (REC) poses a direct, and unmitigated, challenge to the trademark assumptions of traditional cognitivist theories of mind-those that characterize cognition as always and everywhere grounded in the manipulation of contentful representations of some kind. REC has had some success in understanding how sports skills and expertise are acquired. But, REC approaches appear to encounter a natural obstacle when it comes to understanding skill acquisition in knowledge-rich, conceptually based domains like the hard sciences and mathematics. This paper offers a proof of concept that REC's reach can be usefully extended into the domain of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) learning, especially when it comes to understanding the deep roots of such learning. In making this case, this paper has five main parts. The section "Ancient Intellectualism and the REC Challenge" briefly introduces REC and situates it with respect to rival views about the cognitive basis of learning. The "Learning REConceived: from Sports to STEM?" section outlines the substantive contribution REC makes to understanding skill acquisition in the domain of sports and identifies reasons for doubting that it will be possible to apply the same approach to knowledge-rich STEM domains. The "Mathematics as Embodied Practice" section gives the general layout for how to understand mathematics as an embodied practice. The section "The Importance of Attentional Anchors" introduces the concept "attentional anchor" and establishes why attentional anchors are important to educational design in STEM domains like mathematics. Finally, drawing on some exciting new empirical studies, the section "Seeing Attentional Anchors" demonstrates how REC can contribute to understanding the roots of STEM learning and inform its learning design, focusing on the case of mathematics.
756	enactive	2014	Cappuccio, M; Froese, T	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making Making Sense of Non-Sense Introduction	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	0
757	enactive	2013	Witherington, DC; Heying, S	Embodiment and Agency: Toward a Holistic Synthesis for Developmental Science	EMBODIMENT AND EPIGENESIS: THEORETICAL AND METHODOLOGICAL ISSUES IN UNDERSTANDING THE ROLE OF BIOLOGY WITHIN THE RELATIONAL DEVELOPMENTAL SYSTEM, PT A: PHILOSOPHICAL, THEORETICAL, AND BIOLOGICAL DIMENSIONS	Relational, systems-oriented approaches are strongly positioned to advance theory and research in developmental science and to cement a process orientation to development at all levels of organization from the biological to the psychological and sociocultural despite continued prominence in the field of biologically reductionist explanatory accounts. However, the inclusive, explanatorily pluralistic ontological framework involved in adopting a relational perspective on developing systems is not always fully appreciated, explicitly articulated or even followed by devotees of the perspective. In this chapter, we highlight the importance of holistically couching interlevel relations those that obtain vertically between levels of organization, such as between the biological and psychological levels in terms of wholes and parts and of recognizing the different modes of causal explanation that obtain depending on whether the relations move from parts-to-whole or whole-to-parts. This, in turn, yields an explanatory pluralism under which all living systems, at any level of organization, exist as both subjects and objects. We ground this discussion by examining the ontological compatibility with a relational developmental systems perspective of two systems-oriented approaches to embodiment: the dynamic systems approach of Thelen and Smith (1994, 2006) and the enactive approach of Varela, Thompson, and Rosch (1991).
758	enactive	2012	Georgeon, OL; Ritter, FE	An intrinsically-motivated schema mechanism to model and simulate emergent cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We introduce an approach to simulate the early mechanisms of emergent cognition based on theories of enactive cognition and on constructivist epistemology. The agent has intrinsic motivations implemented as inborn proclivities that drive the agent in a proactive way. Following these drives, the agent autonomously learns regularities afforded by the environment, and hierarchical sequences of behaviors adapted to these regularities. The agent represents its current situation in terms of perceived affordances that develop through the agent's experience. This situational representation works as an emerging situation awareness that is grounded in the agent's interaction with its environment and that in turn generates expectations and activates adapted behaviors. Through its activity and these aspects of behavior (behavioral proclivity, situation awareness, and hierarchical sequential learning), the agent starts to exhibit emergent sensibility, intrinsic motivation, and autonomous learning. Following theories of cognitive development, we argue that this initial autonomous mechanism provides a basis for implementing autonomously developing cognitive systems. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
759	enactive	2009	Di Paolo, E	Editorial: The social and enactive mind	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	0
760	enactive	2015	Hutto, DD; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Choking RECtified: embodied expertise beyond Dreyfus	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	On a Dreyfusian account performers choke when they reflect upon and interfere with established routines of purely embodied expertise. This basic explanation of choking remains popular even today and apparently enjoys empirical support. Its driving insight can be understood through the lens of diverse philosophical visions of the embodied basis of expertise. These range from accounts of embodied cognition that are ultra conservative with respect to representational theories of cognition to those that are more radically embodied. This paper provides an account of the acquisition of embodied expertise, and explanation of the choking effect, from the most radically enactive, embodied perspective, spelling out some of its practical implications and addressing some possible philosophical challenges. Specifically, we propose: (i) an explanation of how skills can be acquired on the basis of ecological dynamics; and (ii) a non-linear pedagogy that takes into account how contentful representations might scaffold skill acquisition from a radically enactive perspective.
761	enactive	2015	Silberstein, M; Chemero, A	Extending Neutral Monism to the Hard Problem	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	We agree with critics that enactive, sensorimotor, and ecological accounts of conscious experience do not in and of themselves fully deflate the hard problem of consciousness. As we noted in our earlier work (Silberstein and Chemero, 2011a), even if an extended account of cognition and intentionality allows us to be rid of qualia by deflating the dualism between intentionality and phenomenal experience, the heart of the hard problem, namely subjectivity, still remains. We argue that in order to resolve or deflate the hard problem the hypothesis of extended consciousness needs to be understood as an expression of neutral monism and can quite naturally be understood that way.
762	enactive	2014	Popova, YB	Narrativity and enaction: the social nature of literary narrative understanding	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper proposes an understanding of literary narrative as a form of social cognition and situates the study of such narratives in relation to the new comprehensive approach to human cognition, enaction. The particular form of enactive cognition that narrative understanding is proposed to depend on is that of participatory sense-making, as developed in the work of Di Paolo and De Jaegher. Currently there is no consensus as to what makes a good literary narrative, how it is understood, and why it plays such an irreplaceable role in human experience. The proposal thus identifies a gap in the existing research on narrative by describing narrative as a form of intersubjective process of sense-making between two agents, a teller and a reader. It argues that making sense of narrative literature is an interactional process of co-constructing a story-world with a narrator. Such an understanding of narrative makes a decisive break with both text-centered approaches that have dominated both structuralist and early cognitivist study of narrative, as well as pragmatic communicative ones that view narrative as a form of linguistic implicature. The interactive experience that narrative affords and necessitates at the same time, I argue, serves to highlight the active yet cooperative and communal nature of human sociality, expressed in the many forms than human beings interact in, including literary ones.
763	enactive	2013	Georgeon, OL; Marshall, JB; Manzotti, R	ECA: An enactivist cognitive architecture based on sensorimotor modeling	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	A novel way to model an agent interacting with an environment is introduced, called an Enactive Markov Decision Process (EMDP). An EMDP keeps perception and action embedded within sensorimotor schemes rather than dissociated, in compliance with theories of embodied cognition. Rather than seeking a goal associated with a reward, as in reinforcement learning, an EMDP agent learns to master the sensorimotor contingencies offered by its coupling with the environment. In doing so, the agent exhibits a form of intrinsic motivation related to the autotelic principle (Steels, 2004), and a value system attached to interactions called interactional motivation. This modeling approach allows the design of agents capable of autonomous self-programming, which provides rudimentary constitutive autonomy-a property that theoreticians of enaction consider necessary for autonomous sense-making (e.g., Froese & Ziemke, 2009). A cognitive architecture is presented that allows the agent to discover, memorize, and exploit spatio-sequential regularities of interaction, called Enactive Cognitive Architecture (ECA). In our experiments, behavioral analysis shows that ECA agents develop active perception and begin to construct their own ontological perspective on the environment. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
764	enactive	2013	Hutto, DD	Action understanding: How low can you go?	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper begins by reminding the reader of the standard arguments that sceptics offer for doubting that mirror neurons could constitute any kind of action understanding (Section 2). It then outlines the usual response to these sceptical worries made by believers (Section 3). An attempt to put flesh on this idea in terms of what brains understand is critically examined and found wanting (Section 4). The ensuing analysis shows that it is prima facie possible to develop a more tenable account of enactive understanding that would fit the bill (Section 5). However, a second look raises further questions about (A) what mirror neurons target and (B) what such targeting involves (Section 6). Finally it is concluded that while mirror neurons may play a central role in enabling non-mentalistic forms of intersubjective engagement this falls short of action understanding (Section 7). (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
765	enactive	2013	Villalobos, M	Enactive cognitive science: revisionism or revolution?	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The enactive approach is usually associated with a revolutionary project that aims to transform in a radical way our understanding of mind and cognition. Bold theoretical moves such as the rejection of cognitive representations or the assumption of a deep continuity between life and mind, among other enactive ideas, justify this perception. Nonetheless, when we assume a broader historical perspective, including the long cybernetic tradition that preceded the emergence of cognitive sciences, the image of the enactive approach looks different. Put in the context of the paradigmatic shift that took place between first-order and second-order cybernetics, especially in the case of Maturana's autopoietic theory, the enactive paradigm, so I will try to show in this work, appears rather like a conservative or revisionist project. Better said, it appears as a slightly hybrid paradigm, wherein original and progressive elements coexist with revisionist components. The paper aims to offer an alternative interpretation of the enactive approach and contribute to a better understanding of its identity as a research program, its present and its possible future challenges.
766	enactive	2016	Kirchhoff, MD; Hutto, DD	Never Mind the Gap Neurophenomenology, Radical Enactivism, and the Hard Problem of Consciousness	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	>Context . Neurophenomenology, as formulated by Varela, offers an approach to the science of consciousness that seeks to get beyond the hard problem of consciousness. There is much to admire in the practical approach to the science of consciousness that neurophenomenology advocates. >Problem . Even so, this article argues, the metaphysical commitments of the enterprise require a firmer foundation. The root problem is that neurophenomenology, as classically formulated by Varela, endorses a form of non-reductionism that, despite its ambitions, assumes rather than dissolves the hard problem of consciousness. We expose that neurophenomenology is not a natural solution to that problem. We defend the view that whatever else neurophenomenology might achieve, it cannot close the gap between the phenomenal and the physical if there is no such gap to close. >Method . Building on radical enactive and embodied approaches to cognitive science that deny that the phenomenal and the physical are metaphysically distinct, this article shows that the only way to deal properly with the hard problem is by denying the metaphysical distinction between the physical and the phenomenal that gives the hard problem life. >Results . This article concludes by discussing how neurophenomenology might be reformulated under the auspices of a radically enactive and embodied account of cognition. That is, only by denying that there are two distinct phenomena - the physical and the phenomenal - can the neurophenomenological project get on with addressing its pragmatic problems of showing how neuroscientists may be guided by first-person data in their analysis of third-person experimental data, and vice versa. >Implications . The topic addressed in this article is of direct value to consciousness studies in general and specifically for the project of neurophenomenology. If the neurophenomenological project is to deal with the hard problem, it must denude itself of its non-reductionist background assumption and embrace a strict identity thesis. >Constructivist content . Radical enactive and embodied approaches to mind and consciousness adopt a view of consciousness as a dynamic activity - something an organism enacts in ongoing engagement with its environment. These approaches therefore share with constructivist approaches an action-based view of mind.
767	enactive	2014	Laroche, J; Berardi, AM; Brangier, E	Embodiment of intersubjective time: relational dynamics as attractors in the temporal coordination of interpersonal behaviors and experiences	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses the issue of "being together," and more specifically the issue of "being together in time." We provide with an integrative framework that is inspired by phenomenology, the enactive approach and dynamical systems theories. To do so, we first define embodiment as a living and lived phenomenon that emerges from agent-world coupling. We then show that embodiment is essentially dynamical and therefore we describe experiential, behavioral and brain dynamics. Both lived temporality and the temporality of the living appear to be complex, multiscale phenomena. Next we discuss embodied dynamics in the context of interpersonal interactions, and briefly review the empirical literature on between-persons temporal coordination. Overall, we propose that being together in time emerges from the relational dynamics of embodied interactions and their flexible co-regulation.
768	enactive	2014	Gallagher, S	PRAGMATIC INTERVENTIONS INTO ENACTIVE AND EXTENDED CONCEPTIONS OF COGNITION	PHILOSOPHICAL ISSUES	Clear statements of both extended and enactive conceptions of cognition can be found in John Dewey and other pragmatists. In this paper I'll argue that we can find resources in the pragmatists to address two ongoing debates: (1) in contrast to recent disagreements between proponents of extended vs enactive cognition, pragmatism supports a more integrative viewan enactive conception of extended cognition, and (2) pragmatist views suggest ways to answer the main objections raised against extended and enactive conceptionsspecifically objections focused on constitution versus causal factors, and the mark of the mental.
769	enactive	2014	Fantasia, V; De Jaegher, H; Fasulo, A	We can work it out: an enactive look at cooperation	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The past years have seen an increasing debate on cooperation and its unique human character. Philosophers and psychologists have proposed that cooperative activities are characterized by shared goals to which participants are committed through the ability to understand each other's intentions. Despite its popularity, some serious issues arise with this approach to cooperation. First, one may challenge the assumption that high-level mental processes are necessary for engaging in acting cooperatively. If they are, then how do agents that do not possess such ability (preverbal children, or children with autism who are often claimed to be mind-blind) engage in cooperative exchanges, as the evidence suggests? Secondly, to define cooperation as the result of two de-contextualized minds reading each other's intentions may fail to fully acknowledge the complexity of situated, interactional dynamics and the interplay of variables such as the participants' relational and personal history and experience. In this paper we challenge such accounts of cooperation, calling for an embodied approach that sees cooperation not only as an individual attitude toward the other, but also as a property of interaction processes. Taking an enactive perspective, we argue that cooperation is an intrinsic part of any interaction, and that there can be cooperative interaction before complex communicative abilities are achieved. The issue then is not whether one is able or not to read the other's intentions, but what it takes to participate in joint action. From this basic account, it should be possible to build up more complex forms of cooperation as needed. Addressing the study of cooperation in these terms may enhance our understanding of human social development, and foster our knowledge of different ways of engaging with others, as in the case of autism.
770	enactive	2014	Beer, RD	The Cognitive Domain of a Glider in the Game of Life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	This article examines in some technical detail the application of Maturana and Varela's biology of cognition to a simple concrete model: a glider in the game of Life cellular automaton. By adopting an autopoietic perspective on a glider, the set of possible perturbations to it can be divided into destructive and nondestructive subsets. From a glider's reaction to each nondestructive perturbation, its cognitive domain is then mapped. In addition, the structure of a glider's possible knowledge of its immediate environment, and the way in which that knowledge is grounded in its constitution, are fully described. The notion of structural coupling is then explored by characterizing the paths of mutual perturbation that a glider and its environment can undergo. Finally, a simple example of a communicative interaction between two gliders is given. The article concludes with a discussion of the potential implications of this analysis for the enactive approach to cognition.
771	enactive	2009	Gangopadhyay, N; Kiverstein, J	Enactivism and the Unity of Perception and Action	TOPOI-AN INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY	This paper contrasts two enactive theories of visual experience: the sensorimotor theory (O'Regan and NoA <<, Behav Brain Sci 24(5):939-1031, 2001; NoA << and O'Regan, Vision and mind, 2002; NoA <<, Action in perception, 2004) and Susan Hurley's (Consciousness in action, 1998, Synthese 129:3-40, 2001) theory of active perception. We criticise the sensorimotor theory for its commitment to a distinction between mere sensorimotor behaviour and cognition. This is a distinction that is firmly rejected by Hurley. Hurley argues that personal level cognitive abilities emerge out of a complex dynamic feedback system at the subpersonal level. Moreover reflection on the role of eye movements in visual perception establishes a further sense in which a distinction between sensorimotor behaviour and cognition cannot be sustained. The sensorimotor theory has recently come under critical fire (see e.g. Block, J Philos CII(5):259-272, 2005; Prinz, Psyche, 12(1):1-19, 2006; Aizawa, J Philos CIV(1), 2007) for mistaking a merely causal contribution of action to perception for a constitutive contribution. We further argue that the sensorimotor theory is particularly vulnerable to this objection in a way that Hurley's active perception theory is not. This presents an additional reason for preferring Hurley's theory as providing a conceptual framework for the enactive programme.
772	enactive	2016	Clowes, RW; Mendonca, D	Representation Redux: Is there still a useful role for representation to play in the context of embodied, dynamicist and situated theories of mind?	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The last fifteen years have seen a sea change in cognitive science where issues of embodiment, situatedness and dynamics have become central to the explanatory resources in use. This paper evaluates the suggestion that representation should be eliminated from the explanative vocabulary of cognitive science. We trace the history of the issue by examining the usefulness of action-oriented representation (AOR), and we reassess if there is still a good explanatory role for the notion of representation in contemporary cognitive science by looking at contexts of re-use, contexts of informational fusion and elaboration, contexts of virtualist perception, and contexts of representational extension, restructuring and substitution. We claim that in these contexts the notion of representation continues to fulfill a valuable function in linking the inner informational economy of cognitive systems to how they interact and couple with the world, and that the role of representation in explanation has not been superseded by enactive and radical embodied theories of cognition. The final section of the paper suggests that we might be better off adopting a more pluralist research perspective, accepting that certain branches of cognitive science seem to require the positing of representations in order to develop, whereas others (e.g. research into minimal cognitive systems), do not appear to require it. We conclude that trying to suppress the notion of representation in all areas of cognitive science is seriously misguided. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
773	enactive	2015	Gallagher, S; Lindgren, R	Enactive Metaphors: Learning Through Full-Body Engagement	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Building on both cognitive semantics and enactivist approaches to cognition, we explore the concept of enactive metaphor and its implications for learning. Enactive approaches to cognition involve the idea that online sensory-motor and affective processes shape the way the perceiver-thinker experiences the world and interacts with others. Specifically, we argue for an approach to learning through whole-body engagement in a way that employs enactive metaphors. We summarize recent empirical studies that show enactive metaphors and whole-body involvement in virtual and mixed reality environments support and improve learning.
774	enactive	2014	Jensen, TW; Cuffari, E	Doubleness in Experience: Toward a Distributed Enactive Approach to Metaphoricity	METAPHOR AND SYMBOL	A new concept of cognition also implies a novel approach to the study of metaphor. This insight is the starting point of this article presenting two innovations to comprehending and analyzing metaphor, one theoretical and one in terms of methodology. On a theoretical level we argue for a new orientation to metaphor and metaphoricity based on enactive cognition and distributed language and cognition. In recent years enactive and distributed cognition have been developing a new concept of cognition as an inter-bodily and ecologically afforded achievement, and in light of this theoretical development we propose an approach to metaphor as a multi-body, multi-party, and multi-timescale phenomenon. On a methodological level we demonstrate a new way of analyzing metaphoricity in multimodal social interaction based on in-depth video analyses of two real life examples in which we introduce metaphorical identification criteria focusing on doubleness in meaning, affordances for co-action, co-ordination, and co-experience. Here metaphoricity is explored as a distinct and emergent aspect of the coordination processes that constitute social interaction. In the final section we point to the general findings of the analyses and discuss the challenges that conceptual metaphor theory faces in the light of the new tendencies within cognitive science as well as a possible way forward.
775	enactive	2013	Hutto, D	Exorcising action oriented representations: ridding cognitive science of its Nazgul	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This paper reviews two main strategies for dealing with the threat posed by radically enactive/embodied cognition to traditional cognitive science. Both strategies invoke action oriented representations (AORs). They differ in emphasizing different features of AORs in their attempt to answer the REC threat - focusing on their contents and vehicles, respectively. The first two sections review the central motivations and rationales driving the content' and format' strategies in turn and raise initial concerns about the tenability of each. With respect to the content' strategy, these worries ought to make us suspicious about the explanatory value of positing AORs. Although the format' strategy has a way of answering this concern, it raises a more fundamental worry about the motivation for even believing in AORs in the first place. Although these worries cast doubt on the feasibility of invoking AORs as a means of dealing with the REC threat, they do not constitute conclusive reasons for eliminating AORs altogether. There are other, stronger reasons for supposing that we should. The third section provides a sketch of a master argument, developed elsewhere, which makes that case in full dress fashion. The final section - Resurrection?' - considers and rejects the possibility that AORs might be resurrected, even if it is agreed that the master argument cited in the third section succeeds.
776	enactive	2007	Krueger, T	Design and prosthetic perception	KYBERNETES	Purpose - The paper aims to consider competing accounts of perception and to examine their potential to support design activity that seeks to extend and enrich perception using interface technologies. The interfaces will enable the direct perception of electromagnetic phenomena that are not now considered to be directly available to humans. Design/methodology/approach - Two models are considered. According to one, the standard view, perception is of an external world known by means of information flowing into an organism from it as conditioned by the organism's biological sensory modalities; according to the other, the enactive view, perception occurs by means of learning to differentiate oneself from the world by undertaking activities, by learning and mastering sensorimotor contingencies. Findings - The paper presents preliminary results of design work based on enactive cognition and argues that the results, in turn, re-inform and reinforce the theory by the introduction of novel perceptual phenomena that cannot be accommodated within the standard view of perception. Practical implications - The project, rather than seeking an instrumental utility, though this may occur, instead strives to enable the bringing forth of a richer world. Its objective is epistemic rather than pragmatic. Originality/value - The paper presents a reflection on the role of design in the construction of theory.
777	enactive	2016	Zapata-Fonseca, L; Dotov, D; Fossion, R; Froese, T	Time-Series Analysis of Embodied Interaction: Movement Variability and Complexity Matching As Dyadic Properties	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	There is a growing consensus that a fuller understanding of social cognition depends on more systematic studies of real-time social interaction. Such studies require methods that can deal with the complex dynamics taking place at multiple interdependent temporal and spatial scales, spanning sub-personal, personal, and dyadic levels of analysis. We demonstrate the value of adopting an extended multi-scale approach by re-analyzing movement time-series generated in a study of embodied dyadic interaction in a minimal virtual reality environment (a perceptual crossing experiment). Reduced movement variability revealed an interdependence between social awareness and social coordination that cannot be accounted for by either subjective or objective factors alone: it picks out interactions in which subjective and objective conditions are convergent (i.e., elevated coordination is perceived as clearly social, and impaired coordination is perceived as socially ambiguous). This finding is consistent with the claim that interpersonal interaction can be partially constitutive of direct social perception. Clustering statistics (Allan Factor) of salient events revealed fractal scaling. Complexity matching defined as the similarity between these scaling laws was significantly more pronounced in pairs of participants as compared to surrogate dyads. This further highlights the multi-scale and distributed character of social interaction and extends previous complexity matching results from dyadic conversation to non-verbal social interaction dynamics. Trials with successful joint interaction were also associated with an increase in local coordination. Consequently, a local coordination pattern emerges on the background of complex dyadic interactions in the PCE task and makes joint successful performance possible.
778	enactive	2016	De Jesus, P	From enactive phenomenology to biosemiotic enactivism	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Autopoietic enactivism (AE) is a relatively young but increasingly influential approach within embodied cognitive science, which aims to offer a viable alternative framework to mainstream cognitivism. Similarly, in biology, the nascent field of biosemiotics has steadily been developing an increasingly influential alternative framework to mainstream biology. Despite sharing common objectives and clear theoretical overlap, there has to date been little to no exchange between the two fields. This paper takes this under-appreciated overlap as not only a much needed call to begin building bridges between the two areas but also as an opportunity to explore how AE could benefit from biosemiotics. As a first tentative step towards this end, the paper will draw from both fields to develop a novel synthesis - biosemiotic enactivism - which aims to clarify, develop and ultimately strengthen some key AE concepts. The paper has two main goals: (i) to propose a novel conception of cognition that could contribute to the ongoing theoretical developments of AE and (ii) to introduce some concepts and ideas from biosemiotics to the enactive community in order to stimulate further debate across the two fields.
779	enactive	2015	Wiltshire, TJ; Lobato, EJC; McConnell, DS; Fiore, SM	Prospects for direct social perception: a multi-theoretical integration to further the science of social cognition	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper we suggest that differing approaches to the science of social cognition mirror the arguments between radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognition. We contrast the use in social cognition of theoretical inference and mental simulation mechanisms with approaches emphasizing a direct perception of others' mental states. We build from a recent integrative framework unifying these divergent perspectives through the use of dual process theory and supporting social neuroscience research. Our elaboration considers two complementary notions of direct perception: one primarily stemming from ecological psychology and the other from enactive cognition theory. We use this as the foundation from which to offer an account of the informational basis for social information and assert a set of research propositions to further the science of social cognition. In doing so, we point out how perception of the minds of others can be supported in some cases by lawful information, supporting direct perception of social affordances and perhaps, mental states, and in other cases by cues that support indirect perceptual inference. Our goal is to extend accounts of social cognition by integrating advances across disciplines to provide a multi level and multi theoretic description that can advance this field and offer a means through which to reconcile radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognitive neuroscience.
780	enactive	2014	Maiese, M	How can emotions be both cognitive and bodily?	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The long-standing debate between cognitive and feeling theories of emotion stems, in part, from the assumption that cognition and thought are abstract, intellectual, disembodied processes, and that bodily feelings are non-intentional and have no representational content. Working with this assumption has led many emotions theorists to neglect the way in which emotions are simultaneously bodily and cognitive-evaluative. Even hybrid theories, such as those set forth by Prinz (2004) and Barlassina and Newen (2013), fail to account fully for how the cognitive and bodily elements of emotion are integrated. As a result, such accounts are unable to provide an adequate characterization of the intentionality or phenomenology of emotions. I will argue that an enactive account of emotions, one which characterizes them as a way of engaging with and making sense of one's surroundings, can help us to overcome this false dichotomy between cognitive and body elements. What I call 'affective framing' is at the core of emotional experience. It is the way in which we engage with and appraise our surroundings in and through bodily feelings of caring, so that the bodily and cognitive elements of emotion necessarily are fused. The notion of affective framing not only helps to clarify the relationship between bodily and cognitive elements of emotion, but also offers a useful way to make sense of both the intentional directedness and phenomenal character of emotional experience.
781	enactive	2013	Parthemore, J	The Unified Conceptual Space Theory: an enactive theory of concepts	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Theories of concepts address systematically and productively structured thought. Until the Unified Conceptual Space Theory (UCST), based on Peter Gardenfors' Conceptual Spaces Theory, no one had attempted to offer an explicitly enactive theory of concepts. UCST is set apart from its competitors in locating concepts not in the mind (or brain) of the conceptual agent nor in the affordances of the agent's environment but in the interaction between the two. On the UCST account, concepts are never truly static: conceptual knowledge is always in the process of being brought forth, such that neither agent nor environment can cleanly be separated from the other, and the preconceptual noumena cannot be reconstructed free of conceptual taint. Through such conceptual coloring, mind extends into the world. Concepts create binary distinctions - beginning, most importantly, with the self/non-self distinction - and discrete entities that mask what are, with respect to the conceptual framework, underlying continua. These distinctions - implying notions of e.g. internal and external, inner experience and outer world - are both conceptually necessary and, at the same time, lacking prior ontological status. They are meaningful only with respect to some identifiable observer (which could, in appropriate circumstances, be the organism itself). In consequence, phenomenology has a key role to play, and first-person methods are indispensable to any empirical investigation of concepts.
782	enactive	2013	Hutto, DD	Radically Enactive Cognition in Our Grasp	HAND, AN ORGAN OF THE MIND: WHAT THE MANUAL TELLS THE MENTAL	0
783	enactive	2010	Slors, M	Neural resonance: Between implicit simulation and social perception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Shaun Gallagher and Dan Zahavi have recently argued against a simulationist interpretation of neural resonance. Recognizing intentions and emotions in the facial expressions and gestures of others may be subserved by e.g. mirror neuron activity, but this does not mean that we first experience an intention or emotion and then project it onto the other. Mirror neurons subserve social cognition, according to Gallagher and Zahavi, by being integral parts of processes of enactive social perception. I argue that the notion of enactive social perception does not yet explain why social perception is subserved by mirroring. I also argue that this problem cannot be avoided by means of an appeal to multiple realization. Instead, I propose a holistic model of neural resonance-based social cognition that does give an explanatory role to mirroring by allowing for a partial experiential overlap between experiencing and recognizing emotions and intentions. This account avoids the simulationist step-wise conception of social cognition and recognizes the qualitative difference between first- and third-person emotion and intention attribution. It does capture too much of the simulationist intuitions, however, to warrant the label 'social perception'.
784	enactive	2005	Bishop, JM; Nasuto, JS	Second-order cybernetics and enactive perception	KYBERNETES	Purpose - To present an account of cognition integrating second-order cybernetics (SOC) together with enactive perception and dynamic systems theory. Design/methodology/approach - The paper presents a brief critique of classical models of cognition then outlines how integration of SOC, enactive perception and dynamic systems theory can overcome some weaknesses of the classical paradigm. Findings - Presents the critique of evolutionary robotics showing how the issues of teleology and autonomy are left unresolved by this paradigm although their solution fits within the proposed framework. Research limitations/implications - The paper highlights the importance of genuine autonomy in the development of artificial cognitive systems. It sets out a framework within which the robofic research of cognitive systems could succeed. Practical implications - There are no immediate practical implications but see research implications. Originality/value - It joins the discussion on the fundamental nature of cognitive systems and emphasise the importance of autonomy and embodiment.
785	enactive	2016	Ramstead, MJD; Veissiere, SPL; Kirmayer, LJ	Cultural Affordances: Scaffolding Local Worlds Through Shared Intentionally and Regimes of Attention	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper we outline a framework for the study of the mechanisms involved in the engagement of human agents with cultural affordances. Our aim is to better understand how culture and context interact with human biology to shape human behavior, cognition, and experience. We attempt to integrate several related approaches in the study of the embodied, cognitive, and affective substrates of sociality and culture and the sociocultural scaffolding of experience. The integrative framework we propose bridges cognitive and social sciences to provide (i) an expanded concept of 'affordance' that extends to sociocultural forms of life, and (ii) a multilevel account of the socioculturally scaffolded forms of affordance learning and the transmission of affordances in patterned sociocultural practices and regimes of shared attention. This framework provides an account of how cultural content and normative practices are built on a foundation of contentless basic mental processes that acquire content through immersive participation of the agent in social practices that regulate joint attention and shared intentionality.
786	enactive	2016	De Jesus, P	Autopoietic enactivism, phenomenology and the deep continuity between life and mind	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In their recent book Radicalizing Enactivism. Basic minds without content, Dan Hutto and Erik Myin (H&M) make two important criticisms of what they call autopoietic enactivism (AE). These two criticisms are that AE harbours tacit representationalists commitments and that it has too liberal a conception of cognition. Taking the latter claim as its main focus, this paper explores the theoretical underpinnings of AE in order to tease out how it might respond to H&M. In so doing it uncovers some reasons which not only appear to warrant H&M's initial claims but also seem to point to further uneasy tensions within the AE framework. The paper goes beyond H&M by tracing the roots of these criticisms and apparent tensions to phenomenology and the role it plays in AE's distinctive conception of strong life-mind continuity. It is highlighted that this phenomenological dimension of AE contains certain unexamined anthropomorphic and anthropogenic leanings which do not sit comfortably within its wider commitment to life-mind continuity. In light of this analysis it is suggested that AE will do well to rethink this role or ultimately run the risk of remaining theoretically unstable. The paper aims to contribute to the ongoing theoretical development of AE by highlighting potential internal tensions within its framework which need to be addressed in order for it to continue to evolve as a coherent paradigm.
787	enactive	2015	Werner, K	Towards a PL-Metaphysics of Perception: In Search of the Metaphysical Roots of Constructivism	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	>Context . Metaphysics of perception explores fundamental questions regarding the structure and status of the perceived world (or the world qua perceived). As such, it must not be separated from metaphysics per se. >Problem . Although philosophy should be distinguished from the history of philosophy, it is nevertheless, say, sensitive to history. It means that in doing philosophy in general and metaphysics in particular, we re-establish, re-think ideas - questions and answers - of our antecessors; we set them anew so that they are vivid roots of contemporary thinking. My point is that movements in contemporary philosophy and cognitive science, such as radical constructivism or enactive and embodied cognition, need a metaphysical grounding. >Method . I present a more elaborate account of PL-metaphysics as proposed by Jerzy Perzanowski, i.e., the stream of ideas grounded first of all in the conceptions of Plato and Leibniz. PL-metaphysics shall be compared to what I call, in the same spirit, DL-metaphysics, i.e., the stream grounded in the ideas of Descartes and Locke. On this basis, I propose to reconsider radical constructivism and pursue the question whether PL-metaphysics has anything interesting to offer in this field. >Results . PL-metaphysics does have something interesting to offer due to the fact that according to it, perception is not conceived of as a transmission from an "objective" reality to the internal mental realm; as a result of perception, reality is actualized in some way, i.e., it acquires some presentation(s) or appearance(s). By virtue of perception, the apparent world comes to existence. This, however, does not mean that the apparent world is a projection of mind, that it exists "in the head." >Implications . PL-metaphysics reconciles realism with constructivism. As such, it might be considered either an alternative to constructivism or an improvement and completion of this position. >Constructivist content . The article refers to non-Cartesian movements in contemporary philosophy, including radical constructivism, enactive and embodied cognition.
788	enactive	2015	Kimmel, M; Irran, C; Luger, MA	Bodywork as systemic and inter-enactive competence: participatory process management in Feldenkrais (R) Method and Zen Shiatsu	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Feldenkrais and Shiatsu enable somatic learning through continuous tactile coupling, a real-time interpersonal dynamic unfolding in a safe dyadic sphere. The first part of our micro-ethnographic study draws on process vignettes and subjective theories to demonstrate how bodywork is infused with systemic sensitivities and awareness for non-linear process management. Expressed in dynamic systems parlance, both disciplines foster metastability, adaptivity, and self-organization in the client's somatopersonal system by progressively reconfiguring systemic dispositions, i.e., an attractor landscape. Doing so requires a keen embodied apperception of hierarchies of somatosystemic order. Bodyworkers learn to explore these in their eigenfunction (joints, muscles, fascia), discriminate coordinative organization in small ensembles, and monitor large-scale dynamic interplay. The practitioner's "extended body" reaching forth into the client's through a resonance loop eventually becomes part of this. Within a bodywork session, practitioners modulate this hierarchical functional architecture. Their ability for sensorially staying apace of systemic emergence allows them to respond to minute changes and customize reactions in a zone of proximal development (dynamic immediacy). They stimulate the client's system with a mix of perturbing and stabilizing interventions that oscillate between eigenfunctions and their coordinative integration. Practical knowledge for "soft-assembling" non-linear synergies is crucial for this (cumulative local effects, high-level functions "slaving" the system, etc.). The paper's second part inventorizes the bodyworker's operative tool-box micro-skills providing the wherewithal for context-intelligent intervention. Practitioners deploy "educated senses" and a repertoire of hands-on techniques (grips, stretches, etc.) against a backdrop of somatic habits (proper posture, muscle activation, gaze patterns, etc.). At this level, our study addresses a host of micro-skills through the lens of enactive cognitive science.
789	enactive	2014	Pepper, K	Do sensorimotor dynamics extend the conscious mind?(1)	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	According to the extended conscious mind thesis (ECM), the physical basis of consciousness is not confined exclusively to the brain, but extends beyond it via sensorimotor dynamics. ECM is enjoying growing support among philosophers inspired by developments in enactive and embodied cognitive science. ECM has obvious parallels with the extended mind thesis (EM), according to which the physical basis of cognition is likewise not confined to the brain. However, EM's originator and most prominent defender, Andy Clark, argues that EM theorists can and should reject ECM, and offers an alternative internalist account, which admits a causal but non-constitutive role for sensorimotor dynamics. In this paper, I examine how well this claim fits with some of the key commitments of EM, and the implications for the EM theorist who wishes to deny ECM. I argue that Clark's position - ECM-rejecting EM - is untenable, and defend the ECM interpretation of sensorimotor dynamics.
790	enactive	2013	Robbins, BD	Enactive Cognition and the Neurophenomenology of Emotion	NEUROPHENOMENOLOGY AND ITS APPLICATIONS TO PSYCHOLOGY	0
791	enactive	2012	Cuffari, E	Gestural sense-making: hand gestures as intersubjective linguistic enactments	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The ubiquitous human practice of spontaneously gesturing while speaking demonstrates the embodiment, embeddedness, and sociality of cognition. The present essay takes gestural practice to be a paradigmatic example of a more general claim: human cognition is social insofar as our embedded, intelligent, and interacting bodies select and construct meaning in a way that is intersubjectively constrained and defeasible. Spontaneous co-speech gesture is markedly interesting because it at once confirms embodied aspects of linguistic meaning-making that formalist and linguistic turn-type philosophical approaches fail to appreciate, and it also forefronts intersubjectivity as an inherent and inherently normative dimension of communicative action. Co-speech hand gestures, as linguistically meaningful speech acts, demonstrate both sedimentation and spontaneity (in the sense of Maurice Merleau-Ponty's dialectic of linguistic expression (2002)), or features of convention and nonconvention in a Gricean sense (1989). Yet neither pragmatic nor classic phenomenological approaches to communication can accommodate the practice of co-speech hand gesturing without some rehabilitation and reorientation. Pragmatic criteria of intersubjectivity, normativity, and rationality need to confront the non-propositional and nonverbal meaning-making of embodied encounters. Phenomenological treatments of expression and intersubjectivity must consider the normative nature of high-order social practices like language use. Reciprocally critical exchanges between these traditions and gesture studies yield an improved philosophy that treats language as a multi-modal medium for collaborative meaning achievement. The proper paradigm for these discussions is found in enactive approaches to social cognition. Co-speech hand gestures are first and foremost emergent elements of social interaction, not the external whirring of an isolated internal consciousness. In contrast to current literature that frequently presents gestures as uncontrollable bodily upsurge or infallible imagistic phenomenon that drives and dances with verbal or "linguistic" convention (McNeill 1992, 2005), I suggest that we study gestures as dynamic, embodied, and shared tools for collaborative sense-making.
792	enactive	2011	Fridland, E	The case for proprioception	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In formulating a theory of perception that does justice to the embodied and enactive nature of perceptual experience, proprioception can play a valuable role. Since proprioception is necessarily embodied, and since proprioceptive experience is particularly integrated with one's bodily actions, it seems clear that proprioception, in addition to, e.g., vision or audition, can provide us with valuable insights into the role of an agent's corporal skills and capacities in constituting or structuring perceptual experience. However, if we are going to have the opportunity to argue from analogy with proprioception to vision, audition, touch, taste, or smell, then it is necessary to eschew any doubts about the legitimacy of proprioception's inclusion into the category of perceptual modalities. To this end, in this article, I (1) respond to two arguments that Shaun Gallagher (2003) presents in "Bodily self-awareness and objectperception" against proprioception's ability to meet the criteria of object perception, (2) present a diagnosis of Gallagher's position by locating a misunderstanding in the distinction between proprioceptive information and proprioceptive awareness, and (3) show that treating proprioception as a perceptual modality allows us to account for the interaction of proprioception with the other sensory modalities, to apply the lessons we learn from proprioception to the other sensory modalities, and to account for proprioceptive learning. Finally, (4) I examine Sydney Shoemaker's (1994) identification constraint and suggest that a full-fledged notion of object-hood is unnecessary to ground a theory of perception.
793	enactive	2007	Vernon, D; Furlong, D	Philosophical Foundations of AI	50 YEARS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: ESSAYS DEDICATED TO THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Artificial Intelligence was born in 1956 as the off-spring of the newly-created cognitivist paradigm of cognition. As such, it inherited a strong philosophical legacy of functionalism, dualism, and positivism. This legacy found its strongest statement some 20 years later in the physical symbol systems hypothesis, a conjecture that deeply influenced the evolution of AI in subsequent years. Recent history has seen a swing away from the functionalism of classical AI toward an alternative position that re-asserts the primacy of embodiment, development, interaction, and, more recently, emotion in cognitive systems, focussing now more than ever on enactive models of cognition. Arguably, this swing represents a true paradigm shift in our thinking. However, the philosophical foundations of these approaches - phenomenology - entail some far-reaching ontological and epistemological commitments regarding the nature of a cognitive system, its reality, and the role of its interaction with its environment. The goal of this paper is to draw out the full philosophical implications of the phenomenological position that underpins the current paradigm shift towards enactive cognition.
794	enactive	2016	Lozada, M; Carro, N	Embodied Action Improves Cognition in Children: Evidence from a Study Based on Piagetian Conservation Tasks	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Converging evidence highlights the relevance of embodied cognition in learning processes. In this study we evaluate whether embodied action (enaction) improves cognitive understanding in children. Using the Piagetian conservation tasks in 6-7 year olds, we analyzed quantity conservation conceptualization in children who were active participants in the transformation process and compared these results to those of children who were mere observers of an adult's demonstration (as traditionally conducted). The investigation was performed with 105 first-graders. Conservation tasks were demonstrated to half the children, while the other half actively carried out the transformation of matter. Our findings showed that active manipulation of the material helped children recognize quantity invariance in a higher proportion than when the demonstration was only observed. That is, their enactive experience enabled them to comprehend conservation phenomena more easily than if they were merely passive observers. The outcome of this research thus emphasizes how active participation benefits cognitive processes in learning contexts, promoting autonomy, and agency during childhood.
795	enactive	2015	Laroche, J; Kaddouch, I	Spontaneous preferences and core tastes: embodied musical personality and dynamics of interaction in a pedagogical method of improvisation	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Free improvisations are unprecedented and underdetermined: their content and the way they unfold are not known in advance. Improvised performances have to be actively shaped over time. To do so, the improviser must articulate his embodied experience. In other words, he has to make sense of his experience' by relying on his bodily know-how. And so this process of improvisation personally involves the improviser. Therefore, it should be a relevant point of entry for the study of his musical "personality" (or "identity:' see I Iargreaves et al., 2002). Firstly, to put this argument forward, we link free improvisations and personality in the light of embodied (enactive) and dynamical approaches. However, free improvisations are often played as a group. Secondly, so as to link improvisations and personality in the context of human interactions, we present a pedagogical method of free improvisation (the Kaddouch pedagogy; Kaddough and Miravete, 2012) in which interactivity between learner and teacher is a core aspect. Then, we will show that the process of interaction by itself allows to unveil, to foster and to expand both improvisational skills and musical personality. Finally, we propose theoretical bases for this method, plus some explanations dealing with its effects.
796	enactive	2015	van der Merwe, L	The first experiences of music students with Dalcroze-inspired activities: A phenomenological study	PSYCHOLOGY OF MUSIC	This phenomenological study investigated the meaning of Dalcroze-inspired activities for first-year Baccalareus Musicae (BMus) students during a music education module and describes the essence of this experience for them. In the first semesters of 2011 and 2013, these movement activities were concurrently facilitated during workshops by a licensed Dalcroze teacher and during the semester by a senior lecturer in music education. In the first semester of 2012, a Dalcroze student in her final year presented workshops and another music education lecturer facilitated the activities. Data were collected by means of in-depth interviews, reflective essays and reflective descriptions until data saturation was reached. Data were organized using Atlas.ti 7 and analysed by means of coding, categorizing, and the identification of themes. The following main themes have been identified: social integration, joyful experience, bodily experience, easier understanding, and musical expression. This article will provide a deeper understanding of what it is like for first-year BMus students in South Africa to experience Dalcroze-inspired activities. Their experiences can inform the use of Dalcroze-inspired activities in music education at tertiary level and support advocacy for the embodied and enactive view of music cognition.
797	enactive	2015	Merritt, M	Thinking-is-moving: dance, agency, and a radically enactive mind	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Recently, in cognitive science, the enactivist account of cognition has been gaining ground, due in part to studies of movement in conjunction with thought. The idea, as NoA << (2009), has put it, that "cognition is not something happening inside us or to us, but it's something we do, something we achieve," is increasingly supported by research on joint attention, movement coordination, and gesture. Not surprisingly, therefore, enactivists have also begun to look at "movement specialists"aEuro"dancers-for both scientific and phenomenological accounts of thinking with and through movement. In this paper, I argue that a serious exploration of dance and movement does not merely bolster the enactivist view, but rather, it suggests a radical enactivism, as envisaged by, e.g., Hutto (2011). To support this claim, I examine an account of "Thinking in Movement" provided by Maxine Sheets-Johnstone (1981, 2009) in order to highlight the ways in which intentional agency and meaning-making occur in improvisational dance. These processes, I further argue, closely mirror some of the key components of participatory sense making, as described by De Jaegher and Di Paolo (Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences 6(4):485-507, 2007). This is beneficial to my case, because it permits a discussion of "thought-full action" that does not depend upon standard cognitivist frameworks for explanation. By carefully focusing on how agency can help to separate mere "thrashing about" from meaningful movement, this paper aim to strengthen the position of radical enactivism from the unique perspective and dance and sense-making.
798	enactive	2014	Raimondi, V	Social interaction, languaging and the operational conditions for the emergence of observing	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In order to adequately understand the foundations of human social interaction, we need to provide an explanation of our specific mode of living based on linguistic activity and the cultural practices with which it is interwoven. To this end, we need to make explicit the constitutive conditions for the emergence of the phenomena which relate to language and joint activity starting from their operational-relational matrix. The approach presented here challenges the inadequacy of mentalist models to explain the relation between language and interaction. Recent empirical studies concerning joint attention and language acquisition have led scholars such as Tomasello et al. (2005) to postulate the existence of a universal human "sociocognitive infrastructure" that drives joint social activities and is biologically inherited. This infrastructure would include the skill of precocious intention-reading, and is meant to explain human linguistic development and cultural learning. However, the cognitivist and functionalist assumptions on which this model relies have resulted in controversial hypotheses (i.e., intention-reading as the ontogenetic precursor of language) which take a contentious conception of mind and language for granted. By challenging this model, I will show that we should instead turn ourselves towards a constitutive explanation of language within a "bio-logical" understanding of interactivity. This is possible only by abandoning the cognitivist conception of organism and traditional views of language. An epistemological shift must therefore be proposed, based on embodied, enactive and distributed approaches, and on Maturana's work in particular. The notions of languaging and observing that will be discussed in this article will allow for a bio-logically grounded, theoretically parsimonious alternative to mentalist and spectatorial approaches, and will guide us towards a wider understanding of our sociocultural mode of living.
799	enactive	2014	Aviles, C; Ruiz-Perez, LM; Navia, JA; Rioja, N; Sanz-Rivas, D	Perceptual-motor expertise and cognition in sport: From ecological and dynamic approach to enaction	ANALES DE PSICOLOGIA	In this paper three alternative theoretical streams to cognitivism, with particular emphasis on enactivism are discussed in order to explain the sport skill acquisition process and human control of movement. In the first part, main concepts of ecological psychology are outlined, like movement regulation, direct perception or mutual interdependence between perception and action. Afterwards, using dynamical model as background, some concepts of motor skill coordination are explained (i.e., constraints or movement emergency). The next section will be focused on enactive approach as a conceptual extension from cognitive science that transcends the other paradigms. From this orientation, it calls for a mind-body fusion of the athlete, which is inseparable to the environment and opposing the prevailing dualism and reductionism. Finally, some guidelines and applications enactive research that are currently being developed are presented.
800	enactive	2012	Maiese, M	Rethinking attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper examines two influential theoretical frameworks, set forth by Russell Barkley (1997) and Thomas Brown (2005), and argues that important headway in understanding attention deficit hyperactivity disorder can be made if we acknowledge the way in which human cognition and action are essentially embodied and enactive. The way in which we actively make sense of the world is structured by our bodily dynamics and our sensorimotor engagement with our surroundings. These bodily dynamics are linked to an individual's concerns and felt needs, so that what she attends to in perception, decision-making, and action is partially constituted by her cares and concerns. What I call "affective framing" engages the whole living body, and ordinarily contributes to attentional focusing, working memory, goal-formulation, and action-monitoring. However, due to affective framing deficits, subjects with ADHD find it difficult to focus their attention, kindle their motivation, and systematically simplify cognitive procedures according to considerations of relevance, salience, and context. Thus, what is impaired in ADHD is not simply a set of executive brain functions, but rather a range of bodily dynamics through which subjects engage with their world. For this reason, intensive behavioral intervention that engages the whole living body may be the most effective, lasting treatment for ADHD.
801	symbolic	2004	Anderson, JR; Bothell, D; Byrne, MD; Douglass, S; Lebiere, C; Qin, YL	An integrated theory of the mind	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Adaptive control of thought-rational (ACT-R; J. R. Anderson & C. Lebiere, 1998) has evolved into a theory that consists of multiple modules but also explains how these modules are integrated to produce coherent cognition. The perceptual-motor modules, the goal module, and the declarative memory module are presented as examples of specialized systems in ACT-R. These modules are associated with distinct cortical regions. These modules place chunks in buffers where they can be detected by a production system that responds to patterns of information in the buffers. At any point in time, a single production rule is selected to respond to the current pattern. Subsymbolic processes serve to guide the selection of rules to fire as well as the internal operations of: some modules. Much of learning involves tuning of these subsymbolic processes. A number of simple and complex empirical examples are described to illustrate how these modules function singly and in concert.
802	symbolic	2005	Lewis, RL; Vasishth, S	An activation-based model of sentence processing as skilled memory retrieval	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present a detailed process theory of the moment-by-moment working-memory retrievals and associated control structure that subserve sentence comprehension. The theory is derived from the application of independently motivated principles of memory and cognitive skill to the specialized task of sentence parsing. The resulting theory construes sentence processing as a series of skilled associative memory retrievals modulated by similarity-based interference and fluctuating activation. The cognitive principles are formalized in computational form in the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) architecture, and our process model is realized in ACT-R. We present the results of 6 sets of simulations: 5 simulation sets provide quantitative accounts of the effects of length and structural interference on both unambiguous and garden-path structures. A final simulation set provides a graded taxonomy of double center embeddings ranging from relatively easy to extremely difficult. The explanation of center-embedding difficulty is a novel one that derives from the model's complete reliance on discriminating retrieval cues in the absence of an explicit representation of serial order information. All fits were obtained with only 1 free scaling parameter fixed across the simulations; all other parameters were ACT-R defaults. The modeling results support the hypothesis that fluctuating activation and similarity-based interference are the key factors shaping working memory in sentence processing. We contrast the theory and empirical predictions with several related accounts of sentence-processing complexity.
803	symbolic	1996	Anderson, JR	ACT - A simple theory of complex cognition	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	In the Adaptive Character of Thought (ACT-R) theory, complex cognition arises from an interaction of procedural and declarative knowledge. Procedural knowledge is represented in units called production rules, and declarative knowledge is represented in units called chunks. The individual units are created by simple encodings of objects in the environment (chunks) or simple encodings of transformations in the environment (production rules). A great many such knowledge units underlie human cognition. From this large database, the appropriate units are selected for a particular context by activation processes that are tuned to the statistical structure of the environment. According to the ACT-R theory, the power of human cognition depends on the amount of knowledge encoded and the effective Employment of the encoded knowledge.
804	symbolic	1998	Anderson, JR; Bothell, D; Lebiere, C; Matessa, M	An integrated theory of list memory	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	The ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) is applied to the list memory paradigms of serial recall, recognition memory, free recall, and implicit memory. List memory performance in ACT-R is determined by the level of activation of declarative chunks which encode that items occur in the list. This level of activation is in turn determined by amount of rehearsal, delay, and associative fan from a list node. This theory accounts for accuracy and latency profiles in backward and forward serial recall, set size effects in the Sternberg paradigm, length-strength effects in recognition memory, the Tulving-Wiseman function, serial position, length and practice effects in free recall, and lexical priming in implicit memory paradigms. This wide variety of effects is predicted with minimal parameter variation. It is argued that the strength of the ACT-R theory is that it offers a completely specified processing architecture that serves to integrate many existing models in the literature. (C) 1998 Academic Press.
805	symbolic	1996	Anderson, JR; Reder, LM; Lebiere, C	Working memory: Activation limitations on retrieval	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Two experiments which require subjects to hold a digit span while solving an equation and then recall the digit span are performed. The size of the memory span and the complexity of the equation are manipulated as well as whether the subject is required to substitute items from the digit span for constants in the equation. As either task (digit span recall or equation solving) gets more complex there are performance decrements (accuracy or latency) not only in that task but also in the other task. It is also shown that the majority of the errors are misretrievals. These results are consistent with the proposal that working memory load has its impact on retrieval from memory. These results are fit by the ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993) which assumes that there is a limit on source activation and that this activation has to be divided between the two tasks. As either task increases in complexity there is less activation for retrieval of information from declarative memory. Subjects' misretrievals of associatively related information could be predicted by assuming a partial matching process in ACT-R. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
806	symbolic	2006	Salvucci, DD	Modeling driver behavior in a cognitive architecture	HUMAN FACTORS	Objective: This paper explores the development of a rigorous computational model of driver behavior in a cognitive architecture - a computational framework with underlying psychological theories that incorporate basic properties and limitations of the human system. Background: Computational modeling has emerged as a powerful tool for studying the complex task of driving, allowing researchers to simulate driver behavior and explore the parameters and constraints of this behavior. Method: An integrated driver model developed in the ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) cognitive architecture is described that focuses on the component processes of control, monitoring, and decision making in a multilane highway environment. Results: This model accounts for the steering profiles, lateral position profiles, and gaze distributions of human drivers during lane keeping, curve negotiation, and lane changing. Conclusion: The model demonstrates how cognitive architectures facilitate understanding of driver behavior in the context of general human abilities and constraints and how the driving domain benefits cognitive architectures by pushing model development toward more complex, realistic tasks. Application: The model can also serve as a core computational engine for practical applications that predict and recognize driver behavior and distraction.
807	symbolic	2005	Schooler, LJ; Hertwig, R	How forgetting aids heuristic inference	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Some theorists, ranging from W. James (1890) to contemporary psychologists, have argued that forgetting is the key to proper functioning of memory. The authors elaborate on the notion of beneficial forgetting by proposing that loss of information aids inference heuristics that exploit mnemonic information. To this end, the authors bring together 2 research programs that take an ecological approach to studying cognition. Specifically, they implement fast and frugal heuristics within the ACT-R cognitive architecture. Simulations of the recognition heuristic, which relies on systematic failures of recognition to infer which of 2 objects scores higher on a criterion value, demonstrate that forgetting can boost accuracy by increasing the chances that only I object is recognized. Simulations of the fluency heuristic, which arrives at the same inference on the basis of the speed with which objects are recognized, indicate that forgetting aids the discrimination between the objects' recognition speeds.
808	symbolic	2001	Sohn, MH; Anderson, JR	Task preparation and task repetition: Two-component model of task switching	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The switch cost (the disadvantage of performing a new task vs. a repeated task) has been attributed to lack of preparation for the switched task or priming of the repeated task. These sources were examined by manipulating foreknowledge of task transition (repeat or switch), response-to-stimulus interval (RSI), and practice level. Regardless of foreknowledge, the cost decreased with RSI and practice. The reduction was greater with foreknowledge than with no foreknowledge, and the amount of switch cost did not depend on foreknowledge. These results suggest that the switch cost with foreknowledge may consist of both inadequate preparation and repetition benefit but the switch cost with no foreknowledge may reflect repetition benefit only. An ACT-R (adaptive control of thought-rational) model was proposed, accommodating both preparation and priming effect with 2 independent processes: conflict resolution among productions and decay of chunk activation.
809	symbolic	2003	Gonzalez, C; Lerch, JF; Lebiere, C	Instance-based learning in dynamic decision making	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper presents a learning theory pertinent to dynamic decision making (DDM) called instance-based learning theory (IBLT). IBLT proposes five learning mechanisms in the context of a decision-making process: instance-based knowledge, recognition-based retrieval, adaptive strategies, necessity-based choice, and feedback updates. IBLT suggests in DDM people learn with the accumulation and refinement of instances, containing the decision-making situation, action, and utility of decisions. As decision makers interact with a dynamic task, they recognize a situation according to its similarity to past instances, adapt their judgment strategies from heuristic-based to instance-based, and refine the accumulated knowledge according to feedback on the result of their actions. The IBLT's learning mechanisms have been implemented in an ACT-R cognitive model. Through a series of experiments, this paper shows how the IBLT's learning mechanisms closely approximate the relative trend magnitude and performance of human data. Although the cognitive model is bounded within the context of a dynamic task, the IBLT is a general theory of decision making applicable to other dynamic environments. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
810	symbolic	1997	Anderson, JR; Matessa, M	A production system theory of serial memory	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theory is described that provides a detailed model of how people recall serial lists of items. This theory is based on the Adaptive Character of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) production system (J. R. Anderson, 1993). It assumes that serial lists are represented as hierarchical structures consisting of groups and items within groups. Declarative knowledge units encode the position of items and of groups within larger groups. Production rules use this positional information to organize the serial recall of a list of items. In ACT-R, memory access depends on a limited-capacity activation process, and errors can occur in the contents of recall because of a partial matching process. These limitations conspire in a number of ways to produce the limitations in immediate memory span: As the span increases. activation must be divided among more elements, activation decays more with longer recall times, and there are more opportunities for positional and acoustic confusions. The theory is shown to be capable of predicting both latency and error patterns in serial recall. It addresses effects of serial position. list length, delay, word length, positional confusion, acoustic confusion, and articulatory suppression.
811	symbolic	1997	Anderson, JR; Matessa, M; Lebiere, C	ACT-R: A theory of higher level cognition and its relation to visual attention	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	The ACT-R system is a general system for modeling a wide range of higher level cognitive processes. Recently, it has been embellished with a theory of how its higher level processes interact with a visual interface. This includes a theory of how visual attention can move acre ss the screen, encoding information into a form that can be processed by ACT-R. This system is applied to modeling several classic phenomena in the literature that depend on the speed and selectivity with which visual attention can move across a visual display. ACT-R is capable of interacting with the same computer screens that subjects do and, as such, is well suited to provide a model for tasks involving human-computer interaction. In this article, we discuss a demonstration of ACT-R's application to menu selection and show that the ACT-R theory makes unique predictions, without estimating any parameters, about the time to search a menu. These predictions are confirmed.
812	symbolic	1999	Anderson, JR; Reder, LM	The fan effect: New results and new theories	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The fan effect (J. R. Anderson, 1974) has been attributed to interference among competing associations to a concept. Recently, it has been suggested that such effects might be due to multiple mental models (G. A. Radvansky, D. H. Spieler & R. T. Zacks, 1993) or suppression of concepts (M. C. Anderson & B. A. Spellman, 1995; A. R. A. Conway & R. W. Engle, 1994). It was found that the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) theory, which embodies associative interference, is consistent with the results of G. A. Radvansky et al. and that there is no evidence for concept suppression in a new fan experiment. The ACT-R model provides good quantitative fits to the results, as shown in a variety of experiments. The 3 key concepts in these fits are (a) the associative strength between 2 concepts reflects the degree to which one concept predicts the other; (b) foils are rejected by retrieving mismatching facts; and (c) participants can adjust the relative weights they give to various cues in retrieval.
813	symbolic	1996	Lovett, MC; Anderson, JR	History of success and current context in problem solving - Combined influences on operator selection	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Problem solvers often have multiple operators available to them but must select just one to apply. We present three experiments that demonstrate that solvers use at least two sources of information to make operator selections in the building sticks task (BST): information from their past history of using the operators and information from the current context of the problem Specifically, problem solvers are more likely to use an operator the more successful it has been in the past and the closer it takes the current state to the goal state. These two effects, respectively, represent the learning and performance processes that influence solvers' operator selections. A computational model of BST problem solving, developed within the ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993), provides the unifying framework in which both types of processes can be integrated to predict solvers' selection tendencies. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
814	symbolic	2005	Anderson, JR	Human symbol manipulation within an integrated cognitive architecture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article describes the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture (Anderson et al, 2004; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) and its detailed application to the learning of algebraic symbol manipulation. The theory is applied to modeling the data from a study by Qin, Anderson, Silk, Stenger, & Carter (2004) in which children learn to solve linear equations and perfect their skills over a 6-day period. Functional MRI data show that: (a) a motor region tracks the output of equation solutions, (b) a prefrontal region tracks the retrieval of declarative information, (c) a parietal region tracks the transformation of mental representations of the equation, (d) an anterior cingulate region tracks the setting of goal information to control the information flow, and (e) a caudate region tracks the firing of productions in the ACT-R model. The article concludes with an architectural comparison of the competence children display in this task and the competence that monkeys have shown in tasks that require manipulations of sequences of elements.
815	symbolic	2006	Gray, WD; Sims, CR; Fu, WT; Schoelles, MJ	The soft constraints hypothesis: A rational analysis approach to resource allocation for interactive behavior	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Soft constraints hypothesis (SCH) is a rational analysis approach that holds that the mixture of perceptual-motor and cognitive resources allocated for interactive behavior is adjusted based on temporal cost-benefit tradeoffs. Alternative approaches maintain that cognitive resources are in some sense protected or conserved in that greater amounts of perceptual-motor effort will be expended to conserve lesser amounts of cognitive effort. One alternative, the minimum memory hypothesis (MMH), holds that people favor strategies that minimize the use of memory. SCH is compared with MMH across 3 experiments and with predictions of an Ideal Performer Model that uses ACT-R's memory system in a reinforcement learning approach that maximizes expected utility by minimizing time. Model and data support the SCH view of resource allocation; at the under 1000-ms level of analysis, mixtures of cognitive and perceptual-motor resources are adjusted based on their cost-benefit tradeoffs for interactive behavior.
816	symbolic	2010	Erev, I; Ert, E; Roth, AE; Haruvy, E; Herzog, SM; Hau, R; Hertwig, R; Stewart, T; West, R; Lebiere, C	A Choice Prediction Competition: Choices from Experience and from Description	JOURNAL OF BEHAVIORAL DECISION MAKING	Erev, Ert, and Roth organized three choice prediction competitions focused on three related choice tasks: One shot decisions from description (decisions under risk), one shot decisions from experience, and repeated decisions from experience. Each competition was based on two experimental datasets: An estimation dataset, and a competition dataset. The studies that generated the two datasets used the same methods and subject pool, and examined decision problems randomly selected from the same distribution. After collecting the experimental data to be used for estimation, the organizers posted them on the Web, together with their fit with several baseline models, and challenged other researchers to compete to predict the results of the second (competition) set of experimental sessions. Fourteen teams responded to the challenge: The last seven authors of this paper are members of the winning teams. The results highlight the robustness of the difference between decisions from description and decisions from experience. The best predictions of decisions from descriptions were obtained with a stochastic variant of prospect theory assuming that the sensitivity to the weighted values decreases with the distance between the cumulative payoff functions. The best predictions of decisions from experience were obtained with models that assume reliance on small samples. Merits and limitations of the competition method are discussed. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
817	symbolic	2001	Byrne, MD; Anderson, JR	Serial modules in parallel: The psychological refractory period and perfect time-sharing	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors describe ACT-R/perceptual-motor (ACT-R/PM), an integrated theory of cognition, perception, and action that consists of the ACT-R production system and a set of perceptual-motor modules. Each module (including cognition) is essentially serial, but modules run in parallel with one another. ACT-R/PM can model simple dual tasks such as the psychological refractory period (PRP), including subtle results previously explained with executive process interactive control (EPIC, D. E. Meyer & D. E. Kieras, 1997a). The central difference between the theories is that EPIC's productions can fire in parallel, whereas in ACT-R/PM, they are serial. Results from three PRP-like experiments with more demanding cognitive requirements indicate that cognitive processing for the 2 tasks need not overlap. ACT-R's activation-based retrieval processes are critical in accounting for the timing of these tasks and for explaining the dual-task performance decrement.
818	symbolic	2007	Taatgen, NA; van Rijn, H; Anderson, J	An integrated theory of prospective time interval estimation: The role of cognition, attention, and learning	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theory of prospective time perception is introduced and incorporated as a module in an integrated theory of cognition, thereby extending existing theories and allowing predictions about attention and learning. First, a time perception module is established by fitting existing datasets (interval estimation and bisection and impact of secondary tasks on attention). The authors subsequently used the module as a part of the adaptive control of thought-rational (ACT-R) architecture to model a new experiment that combines attention, learning, dual tasking, and time perception. Finally, the model predicts time estimation, learning, and attention in a new experiment. The model predictions and fits demonstrate that the proposed integrated theory of prospective time interval estimation explains detailed effects of attention and learning during time interval estimation.
819	symbolic	2008	Hertwig, R; Herzog, SM; Schooler, LJ; Reimer, T	Fluency heuristic: A model of how the mind exploits a by-product of information retrieval	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Boundedly rational heuristics for inference can be surprisingly accurate and frugal for several reasons. They can exploit environmental structures, co-opt complex capacities, and elude effortful search by exploiting information that automatically arrives on the mental stage. The fluency heuristic is a prime example of a heuristic that makes the most of an automatic by-product of retrieval from memory, namely, retrieval fluency. In 4 experiments, the authors show that retrieval fluency can be a proxy for real-world quantities, that people can discriminate between two objects' retrieval fluencies, and that people's inferences are in line with the fluency heuristic (in particular fast inferences) and with experimentally manipulated fluency. The authors conclude that the fluency heuristic may be one tool in the mind's repertoire of strategies that artfully probes memory for encapsulated frequency information that can veridically reflect statistical regularities in the world.
820	symbolic	2011	Marewski, JN; Schooler, LJ	Cognitive Niches: An Ecological Model of Strategy Selection	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	How do people select among different strategies to accomplish a given task? Across disciplines, the strategy selection problem represents a major challenge. We propose a quantitative model that predicts how selection emerges through the interplay among strategies, cognitive capacities, and the environment. This interplay carves out for each strategy a cognitive niche, that is, a limited number of situations in which the strategy can be applied, simplifying strategy selection. To illustrate our proposal, we consider selection in the context of 2 theories: the simple heuristics framework and the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought-rational) architecture of cognition. From the heuristics framework, we adopt the thesis that people make decisions by selecting from a repertoire of simple decision strategies that exploit regularities in the environment and draw on cognitive capacities, such as memory and time perception. ACT-R provides a quantitative theory of how these capacities adapt to the environment. In 14 simulations and 10 experiments, we consider the choice between strategies that operate on the accessibility of memories and those that depend on elaborate knowledge about the world. Based on Internet statistics, our model quantitatively predicts people's familiarity with and knowledge of real-world objects, the distributional characteristics of the associated speed of memory retrieval, and the cognitive niches of classic decision strategies, including those of the fluency, recognition, integration, lexicographic, and sequential-sampling heuristics. In doing so, the model specifies when people will be able to apply different strategies and how accurate, fast, and effortless people's decisions will be.
821	symbolic	2003	Anderson, JR; Lebiere, C	The Newell Test for a theory of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Newell (1980; 1990) proposed that cognitive theories be developed in an effort to satisfy multiple criteria and to avoid theoretical myopia. He provided two overlapping lists of 13 criteria that the human cognitive architecture would have to satisfy in order to be functional. We have distilled these into 12 criteria: flexible behavior, real-time performance, adaptive behavior, vast knowledge base, dynamic behavior, knowledge integration, natural language, learning, development, evolution, and brain realization. There would be greater theoretical progress if we evaluated theories by a broad set of criteria such as these and attended to the weaknesses such evaluations revealed. To illustrate how theories can be evaluated we apply these criteria to both classical connectionism (McClelland Rumelhart 1986; Rumelhart & McClelland 1986b) and the ACT-R theory (Anderson & Lebiere 1998). The strengths of classical connectionism on this test derive from its intense effort in addressing empirical phenomena in such domains as language and cognitive development. Its weaknesses derive from its failure to acknowledge a symbolic level to thought. In contrast, ACT-R includes both symbolic and subsymbolic components. The strengths of the ACT-R theory derive from its tight integration of the symbolic component with the subsymbolic component. Its weaknesses largely derive from its failure, as yet, to adequately engage in intensive analyses of issues related to certain criteria on Newell's list.
822	symbolic	2002	Taatgen, NA; Anderson, JR	Why do children learn to say "Broke"? A model of learning the past tense without feedback	COGNITION	Learning the English past tense is characterized by a U-shaped learning function for the irregular verbs. Existing cognitive models often rely on a sudden increase in vocabulary, a high token-frequency of regular verbs, and complicated schemes of feedback in order to model this phenomenon. All these assumptions are at odds with empirical data. In this paper a hybrid ACT-R model is presented that shows U-shaped learning without direct feedback, changes in vocabulary, or unrealistically high rates of regular verbs. The model is capable of learning the default rule, even if regular forms are infrequent. It can also help explore the question of why there is a distinction between regular and irregular verbs in the first place, by examining the costs and benefits of both types of verbs. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
823	symbolic	2001	Salvucci, DD	Predicting the effects of in-car interface use on driver performance: an integrated model approach	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	While researchers have made great strides in evaluating and comparing user interfaces using computational models and frameworks, their work has focused almost exclusively on interfaces that serve as the only or primary task for the user. This paper presents an approach of evaluating and comparing interfaces that users interact with as secondary tasks while executing a more critical primary task. The approach centers on the integration of two computational behavioral models, one for the primary task and another for the secondary task. The resulting integrated model can then execute both tasks together and generate a priori predictions about the effects of one task on the other. The paper focuses in particular on the domain of driving and the comparison of four dialing interfaces for in-car cellular phones. Using the ACT-R cognitive architecture (Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) as a computational framework, behavioral models for each possible dialing interface were integrated with an existing model of driver behavior (Salvucci, Beer & Liu, in press). The integrated model predicted that two different manual-dialing interfaces would have significant effects on driver steering performance while two different voice-dialing interfaces would have no significant effect on performance. An empirical study conducted with human drivers in a driving simulator showed that while model and human performance differed with respect to overall magnitudes, the model correctly predicted the overall pattern of effects for human drivers. These results suggest that the integration of computational behavioral models provides a useful, practical method for predicting the effects of secondary-task interface use on primary-task performance. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
824	symbolic	2003	Taatgen, NA; Lee, FJ	Production compilation: A simple mechanism to model complex skill acquisition	HUMAN FACTORS	In this article we describe production compilation, a mechanism for modeling skill acquisition. Production compilation has been developed within the ACT-Rational (ACT-R; J. R. Anderson, D. Bothell, M. D. Byrne, & C. Lebiere, 2002) cognitive architecture and consists of combining and specializing task-independent procedures into task-specific procedures. The benefit of production compilation for researchers in human factors is that it enables them to test the strengths and weaknesses of their task analyses and user models by allowing them to model the learning trajectory from the main task level and the unit task level down to the keystroke level. We provide an example of this process by developing and describing a model teaming a simulated air traffic controller task. Actual or potential applications of this research include the evaluation of user interfaces, the design of systems that support learning, and the building of user models.
825	symbolic	2008	Anderson, JR; Fincham, JM; Qin, Y; Stocco, A	A central circuit of the mind	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The methodologies of cognitive architectures and functional magnetic resonance imaging can mutually inform each other. For example, four modules of the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought - rational) cognitive architecture have been associated with four brain regions that are active in complex tasks. Activity in a lateral inferior prefrontal region reflects retrieval of information in a declarative module; activity in a posterior parietal region reflects changes to problem representations in an imaginal module; activity in the anterior cingulate cortex reflects the updates of control information in a goal module; and activity in the caudate nucleus reflects execution of productions in a procedural module. Differential patterns of activation in such central regions can reveal the time course of different components of complex cognition.
826	symbolic	2001	Byrne, MD	ACT-R/PM and menu selection: applying a cognitive architecture to HCl	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Understanding the interaction of a user with a designed device such as a GUI requires clear understanding of three components: the cognitive, perceptual and motor capabilities of the user, the task to be accomplished and the artefact used to accomplish the task. Computational modeling systems which enable serious consideration of all these constraints have only recently begun to emerge. One such system is ACT-R/PM, which is described in detail. ACT-R/PM is a production system architecture that has been augmented with a set of perceptual-motor modules designed to enable the detailed modeling of interactive tasks. Nilsen's (1991) random menu selection task serves two goals: to illustrate the promise of this system and to help further our understanding of the processes underlying menu selection and visual search. Nilsen's original study, two earlier models of the task, and recent eye-tracking data are all considered. Drawing from the best properties of the previous models considered and guided by information from the eye-tracking experiment, a series of new models of random menu selection were constructed using ACT-R/PM. The final model provides a zero-parameter fit to the data that does an excellent, though not perfect, job of capturing the data. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
827	symbolic	2001	Anderson, JR; Betz, J	A hybrid model of categorization	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Category learning is often modeled as either an exemplar-based or a nile-based process. This paper shows that both strategies can be combined in a cognitive architecture that was developed to model other task domains. Variations on the exemplar-based random walk (EBRW) model of Nosofsky and Palmeri (1997b) and the rule-plus-exception (RULEX) rule-based model of Nosofsky, Palmeri, and McKinley (1994) were implemented in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The architecture allows the two strategies to be mixed to produce classification behavior. The combined system reproduces latency, learning, and generalization data from three category-learning experiments-Nosofsky and Palmeri (1997b), Nosofsky et al., and Erickson and Kruschke (1998). It is concluded that EBRW and ACT-R have different but equivalent means of incorporating similarity and practice. In addition, ACT-R brings a theory of strategy selection that enables the exemplar and the rule-based strategies to be mixed.
828	symbolic	2003	Peebles, D; Cheng, PCH	Modeling the effect of task and graphical representation on response latency in a graph reading task	HUMAN FACTORS	We report an investigation into the processes involved in a common graph-reading task using two types of Cartesian graph. We describe an experiment and eye movement study, the results of which show that optimal scan paths assumed in the task analysis approximate the detailed sequences of saccades made by individuals. The research demonstrates the computational inequivalence of two sets of informationally equivalent graphs and illustrates how the computational advantages of a representation outweigh factors such as user unfamiliarity. We describe two models, using the ACT rational perceptual motor (ACT-R/PM) cognitive architecture, that replicate the pattern of observed response latencies and the complex scan paths revealed by the eye movement study. Finally, we outline three guidelines for designers of visual displays: Designers should (a) consider how different quantities are encoded within any chosen representational format, (b) consider the full range of alternative varieties of a given task, and (c) balance the cost of familiarization with the computational advantages of less familiar representations. Actual or potential applications of this research include informing the design and selection of appropriate visual displays and illustrating the practice and utility of task analysis, eye tracking, and cognitive modeling for understanding interactive tasks with external representations.
829	symbolic	2005	Pirolli, P	Rational analyses of information foraging on the Web	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article describes rational analyses and cognitive models of Web users developed within information foraging, theory. This is done by following the rational analysis methodology of (a) characterizing the problems posed by the environment, (b) developing rational analyses of behavioral solutions to those problems, and (c) developing cognitive models that approach the realization of those solutions. Navigation choice is modeled as a random utility model that uses spreading activation mechanisms that link proximal cues (information scent) that occur in Web browsers to internal user goals. Web-site leaving is modeled as an ongoing assessment by the Web user of the expected benefits of continuing at a Web site as opposed to going elsewhere. These cost-benefit assessments are also based on spreading activation models of information scent. Evaluations include a computational model of Web user behavior called Scent-Based Navigation and Information Foraging in the ACT Architecture, and the Law of Surfing, which characterizes the empirical distribution of the length of paths of visitors at a Web site.
830	symbolic	2003	Anderson, JR; Qin, YL; Sohn, MH; Stenger, VA; Carter, CS	An information-processing model of the BOLD response in symbol manipulation tasks	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Two imaging experiments were performed-one involving an algebraic transformation task studied by Anderson, Reder, and Lebiere (1996) and the other an abstraction symbol manipulation task studied by Blessing and Anderson (1996). ACT-R models exist that predict the latency patterns in these tasks. These models require activity in an imaginal buffer to represent changes to the problem representation, in a retrieval buffer to hold information from declarative memory, and in a manual buffer to hold information about motor behavior. A general theory is described about how to map activity in these buffers onto the fMRI blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response. This theory claims that the BOLD response is integrated over the duration that a buffer is active and can be used to predict the observed BOLD function. Activity in the imaginal buffer is shown to predict the BOLD response in a left posterior parietal region; activity in the retrieval buffer is shown to predict the BOLD response in a left prefrontal region; and activity in the manual buffer is shown to predict activity in a motor region. More generally, this article shows how to map a large class of information-processing theories (not just ACT-R) onto the BOLD response and provides a precise interpretation of the cognitive significance of the BOLD response.
831	symbolic	2010	Borst, JP; Taatgen, NA; van Rijn, H	The Problem State: A Cognitive Bottleneck in Multitasking	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The main challenge for theories of multitasking is to predict when and how tasks interfere. He re, we focus on interference related to the problem state. a directly accessible intermediate representation of the current state of a task. On the basis of Salvucci and Taatgen's (2008) threaded cognition theory, we predict interference if 2 or more tasks require a problem state but not when only, one task requires one. This prediction was tested in a series of 3 experiments. In Experiment 1, it Subtraction task and it text entry task had to be carried out concurrently. Both tasks were presented in 2 versions: one that required maintaining it problem state and one that did not. A significant overadditive interaction effect wits observed, showing that the interference between tasks was maximal when both tasks required a problem state. The other 2 experiments tested whether the interference wits indeed due to a problem state bottleneck, instead of cognitive load (Experiment 2: an alternative Subtraction and text entry experiment) or a phonological loop bottleneck (Experiment 3: a triple-task experiment that added phonological processing). Both experiments supported the problem state hypothesis. To account for the observed behavior, computational cognitive models were developed using, threaded cognition within the context of the cognitive architecture ACT-R (Anderson, 2007). The models confirm that it problem state bottleneck can explain the observed interference.
832	symbolic	2008	Gigerenzer, G; Hoffrage, U; Goldstein, DG	Fast and frugal heuristics are plausible models of cognition: Reply to Dougherty, Franco-Watkins, and Thomas (2008)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. R. Dougherty, A. M. Franco-Watkins, and R. Thomas (2008) conjectured that fast and frugal heuristics need an automatic frequency counter for ordering cues. In fact, only a few heuristics order cues, and these orderings can arise from evolutionary, social, or individual learning, none of which requires automatic frequency counting. The idea that cue validities cannot be computed because memory does not encode missing information is misinformed; it implies that measures of co-occurrence are incomputable and would invalidate most theories of cue learning. They also questioned the recognition heuristic's psychological plausibility on the basis of their belief that it has not been implemented in a memory model, although it actually has been implemented in ACT-R (L. J. Schooler & R. Hertwig, 2005). On the positive side, M. R. Dougherty et al. discovered a new mechanism for a less-is-more effect. The authors of the present article specify minimal criteria for psychological plausibility, describe some genuine challenges in the study of heuristics, and conclude that fast and frugal heuristics are psychologically plausible: They use limited search and are tractable and robust.
833	symbolic	2006	Fu, WT; Gray, WD	Suboptimal tradeoffs in information seeking	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Explicit information-seeking actions are needed to evaluate alternative actions in problem-solving tasks. Information-seeking costs are often traded of against the utility of information. We present three experiments that show how subjects adapt to the cost and information structures of environments in a map-navigation task. We found that subjects often stabilize at suboptimal levels of performance. A Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) is proposed and implemented in the ACT-R architecture to predict information-seeking behavior. The BSM uses a local decision rule and a global Bayesian learning mechanism to decide when to stop seeking information. The model matched the human data well, suggesting that adaptation to cost and information structures can be achieved by a simple local decision rule. The local decision rule, however, often limits exploration of the environment and leads to suboptimal performance. We propose that suboptimal performance is an emergent property of the dynamic interactions between cognition and the environment. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
834	symbolic	2013	Dillon, B; Mishler, A; Sloggett, S; Phillips, C	Contrasting intrusion profiles for agreement and anaphora: Experimental and modeling evidence	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	We investigated the relationship between linguistic representation and memory access by comparing the processing of two linguistic dependencies that require comprehenders to check that the subject of the current clause has the correct morphological features: subject-verb agreement and reflexive anaphors in English. In two eye-tracking experiments we examined the impact of structurally illicit noun phrases on the computation of reflexive and subject-verb agreement. Experiment 1 directly compared the two dependencies within participants. Results show a clear difference in the intrusion profile associated with each dependency: agreement resolution displays clear intrusion effects in comprehension (as found by Pearlmutter, Garnsey, & Bock, 1999; Wagers, Lau, & Phillips, 2009), but reflexives show no such intrusion effect from illicit antecedents (Sturt, 2003; Xiang, Dillon, 82 Phillips, 2009). Experiment 2 replicated the lack of intrusion for reflexives, confirming the reliability of the pattern and examining a wider range of feature combinations. In addition, we present modeling evidence that suggests that the reflexive results are best captured by a memory retrieval mechanism that uses primarily syntactic information to guide retrievals for the anaphor's antecedent, in contrast to the mixed morphological and syntactic cues used resolve subject-verb agreement dependencies. Despite the fact that agreement and reflexive dependencies are subject to a similar morphological agreement constraint, in online processing comprehenders appear to implement this constraint in distinct ways for the two dependencies. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
835	symbolic	2002	Maybery, MT; Parmentier, FBR; Jones, DM	Grouping of list items reflected in the timing of recall: implications for models of serial verbal memory	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Three experiments examined the effect of temporal grouping on the timing of recall in verbal serial memory. Compared to an ungrouped condition, recall in a grouped condition produced a peak in latency between the groups (Experiment 1). However, the ratio of within- to between-group intervals at presentation was not reflected in recall (Experiment 2), contrary to the predictions of some oscillator models (Brown, Preece, Hulme, 2000; Burgess & Hitch, 1999). In Experiment 3, grouped and ungrouped lists of different lengths were compared to assess a recent version of the ACT-R model applied to serial recall (Anderson, Bothell, Lebiere, & Matessa, 1998). Recall latencies showed a cost at group onset related to group size and a cost for all items of the first group associated with carriage of a second group. Results are discussed with reference to oscillator models, the ACT-R model, and augmented versions of it. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved:
836	symbolic	2011	Reitter, D; Keller, F; Moore, JD	A Computational Cognitive Model of Syntactic Priming	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The psycholinguistic literature has identified two syntactic adaptation effects in language production: rapidly decaying short-term priming and long-lasting adaptation. To explain both effects, we present an ACT-R model of syntactic priming based on a wide-coverage, lexicalized syntactic theory that explains priming as facilitation of lexical access. In this model, two well-established ACT-R mechanisms, base-level learning and spreading activation, account for long-term adaptation and short-term priming, respectively. Our model simulates incremental language production and in a series of modeling studies, we show that it accounts for (a) the inverse frequency interaction; (b) the absence of a decay in long-term priming; and (c) the cumulativity of long-term adaptation. The model also explains the lexical boost effect and the fact that it only applies to short-term priming. We also present corpus data that verify a prediction of the model, that is, that the lexical boost affects all lexical material, rather than just heads.
837	symbolic	1999	Just, MA; Carpenter, PA; Varma, S	Computational modeling of high-level cognition and brain function	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	This article describes a computational modeling architecture, 4CAPS, which is consistent with key properties of cortical function and makes good contact with functional neuroimaging results. Like earlier cognitive models such as SOAR, ACT-R, 3CAPS, and EPIC, the proposed cognitive model is implemented in a computer simulation that predicts observable variables such as human response times and error patterns. In addition, the proposed 4CAPS model accounts for the functional decomposition of the cognitive system and predicts fMRI activation levels and their localization within specific cortical regions, by incorporating key properties of cortical function into the design of the modeling system. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
838	symbolic	2001	Anderson, JR; Douglass, S	Tower of Hanoi: Evidence for the cost of goal retrieval	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Past research on the Tower of Hanoi problem has provided clear evidence for the importance of goal-subgoal structures in problem solving. However, the nature of the traditional Tower of Hanoi problem makes it impossible to determine whether there is any special cost associated with storing or retrieving goals. A variation of the Tower of Hanoi problem is described that allows one to determine separately if there is an effect of how long a goal has to be retained on storage time or how long ago it was formed on retrieval time. This paradigm provides evidence for an effect of retention interval on retrieval time and not on storage time. An ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational; J. R. Anderson & C. Lebiere, 1998) simulation of these data is described, which treats goal memory as no different from other memories.
839	symbolic	2005	Sohn, MH; Goode, A; Stenger, VA; Jung, KJ; Carter, CS; Anderson, JR	An information-processing model of three cortical regions: evidence in episodic memory retrieval	NEUROIMAGE	ACT-R (Anderson, J.R., et al., 2003. An information-processing model of the BOLD response in symbol manipulation tasks. Psychon. Bull. Rev. 10, 241-261) relates the inferior dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex to a retrieval buffer that holds information retrieved from memory and the posterior parietal cortex to an imaginal buffer that holds problem representations. Because the number of changes in a problem representation is not necessarily correlated with retrieval difficulties, it is possible to dissociate prefrontal-parietal activations. In two fMRI experiments, we examined this dissociation using the fan effect paradigm. Experiment I compared a recognition task, in which representation requirement remains the same regardless of retrieval difficulty, with a recall task, in which both representation and retrieval loads increase with retrieval difficulty. In the recognition task, the prefrontal activation revealed a fan effect but not the parietal activation. In the recall task, both regions revealed fan effects. In Experiment 2, we compared visually presented stimuli and aurally presented stimuli using the recognition task. While only the prefrontal region revealed the fan effect, the activation patterns in the prefrontal and the parietal region did not differ by stimulus presentation modality. In general, these results provide support for the prefrontal-parietal dissociation in terms of retrieval and representation and the modality-independent nature of the information processed by these regions. Using ACT-R, we also provide computational models that explain patterns of fMRI responses in these two areas during recognition and recall. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Inc.
840	symbolic	2008	Jilk, DJ; Lebiere, C; O'Reilly, RC; Anderson, JR	SAL: an explicitly pluralistic cognitive architecture	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The SAL cognitive architecture is a synthesis of two well-established constituents: ACT-R, a hybrid symbolic-subsymbolic cognitive architecture, and Leabra, a neural architecture. These component architectures have vastly different origins yet suggest a surprisingly convergent view of the brain, the mind and behaviour. Furthermore, both of these architectures are internally pluralistic, recognising that models at a single level of abstraction cannot capture the required richness of behaviour. In this article, we offer a brief principled defence of epistemological pluralism in cognitive science and artificial intelligence, and elaborate on the SAL architecture as an example of how pluralism can be highly effective as an approach to research in cognitive science.
841	symbolic	2008	Vasishth, S; Brussow, S; Lewis, RL; Drenhaus, H	Processing polarity: How the ungrammatical intrudes on the grammatical	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A central question in online human sentence comprehension is, "How are linguistic relations established between different parts of a sentence?" Previous work has shown that this dependency resolution process can be computationally expensive, but the underlying reasons for this are still unclear. This article argues that dependency resolution is mediated by cue-based retrieval, constrained by independently motivated working memory principles defined in a cognitive architecture. To demonstrate this, this article investigates an unusual instance of dependency resolution, the processing of negative and positive polarity items, and confirms a surprising prediction of the cue-based retrieval model: Partialcue matches-which constitute a kind of similarity-based interference-can give rise to the intrusion of ungrammatical retrieval candidates, leading to both processing slow-downs and even errors of judgment that take the form of illusions of grammaticality in patently ungrammatical structures. A notable achievement is that good quantitative fits are achieved without adjusting the key model parameters.
842	symbolic	2006	Gaissmaier, W; Schooler, LJ; Rieskamp, J	Simple predictions fueled by capacity limitations: When are they successful?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Counter-intuitively, Y. Kareev, I. Lieberman, and M. Lev (1997) found that a lower short-term memory capacity benefits performance on a correlation detection task. They assumed that people with low short-term memory capacity (low spans) perceived the correlations as more extreme because they relied on smaller samples, which are known to exaggerate correlations. The authors consider, as an alternative hypothesis, that low spans do not perceive exaggerated correlations but make simpler predictions. Modeling both hypotheses in ACT-R demonstrates that simpler predictions impair performance if the environment changes, whereas a more exaggerated perception of correlation is advantageous to detect a change. Congruent with differences in the way participants make predictions, 2 experiments revealed a low capacity advantage before the environment changes but a high capacity advantage afterward, although this pattern of results surprisingly only existed for men.
843	symbolic	2005	Anderson, JR; Albert, MV; Fincham, JM	Tracing problem solving in real time: fMRI analysis of the subject-paced tower of Hanoi	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Previous research has found three brain regions for tracking components of the ACT-R cognitive architecture: a posterior parietal region that tracks changes in problem representation, a prefrontal region that tracks retrieval of task-relevant information, and a motor region that tracks the programming of manual responses. This prior research has used relatively simple tasks to incorporate a slow event-related procedure, allowing the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response to go back to baseline after each trial. The research described here attempts to extend these methods to tracking problem solving in a complex task, the Tower of Hanoi, which involves many complex steps of cognition and motor actions in rapid succession. By tracking the activation patterns in these regions, it is possible to predict with intermediate accuracy when participants are planning a future sequence of moves. The article describes a cognitive model in the ACT-R architecture that is capable of explaining both the latency data in move generation and the BOLD responses in these three regions.
844	symbolic	2005	Salvucci, DD	A multitasking general executive for compound continuous tasks	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	As cognitive architectures move to account for increasingly complex real-world tasks, one of the most pressing challenges involves understanding and modeling human multitasking. Although a number of existing models now perform multitasking in real-world scenarios, these models typically employ customized executives that schedule tasks for the particular domain but do not generalize easily to other domains. This article outlines a general executive for the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture that, given independent models of individual tasks, schedules and interleaves the models' behavior into integrated multitasking behavior. To demonstrate the power of the proposed approach, the article describes an application to the domain of driving, showing how the general executive can interleave component subtasks of the driving task (namely, control and monitoring) and interleave driving with in-vehicle secondary tasks (radio tuning and phone dialing).
845	symbolic	2010	Goertzel, B; Lian, RT; Arel, I; de Garis, H; Chen, S	A world survey of artificial brain projects, Part II Biologically inspired cognitive architectures	NEUROCOMPUTING	A number of leading cognitive architectures that are inspired by the human brain at various levels of granularity are reviewed and compared with special attention paid to the way their internal structures and dynamics map onto neural processes Four categories of Biologically Inspired Cognitive Architectures (BICAs) are considered with multiple examples of each category briefly reviewed and selected examples discussed in more depth primarily symbolic architectures (e g ACT-R) emergentist architectures (e g DeSTIN) developmental robotics architectures (e g IM-CLEVER) and our central focus hybrid architectures (e g LIDA CLARION 4D/RCS DUAL MicroPsi and OpenCog) Given the state of the art in BICA it is not yet possible to tell whether emulating the brain on the architectural level is going to be enough to allow rough emulation of brain function and given the state of the art in neuroscience it is not yet possible to connect BICAs with large-scale brain simulations in a thoroughgoing way However it is nonetheless possible to draw reasonably close function connections between various components of various BICAs and various brain regions and dynamics and as both BICAs and brain simulations mature these connections should become richer and may extend further into the domain of internal dynamics as well as overall behavior (C) 2010 Elsevier B V All rights reserved
846	symbolic	2005	Anderson, JR; Taatgen, NA; Byrne, MD	Learning to achieve perfect, timesharing: Architectural implications of Hazeltine, Teague, and Ivry (2002)	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	E. Hazeltine, D. Teague, and R. B. Ivry (2002) have presented data that have been interpreted as evidence against a central bottleneck. This article describes simulations of their Experiments I and 4 in the ACT-R cognitive architecture, which does possess a central bottleneck in production execution. The simulation model is capable of accounting for the emergence of near-perfect timesharing in Experiment I and the detailed data on the distribution of response times from Experiment 4. With practice, the central bottleneck in ACT-R will be reduced to a maximum of 50 ms (I production cycle) and can often be much less, depending on timing of stages and variability in their times. The authors also show, with a mathematical analysis of E. Hazeltine et al.'s Experiment 2, that the expected dual costs for these kinds of highly practiced tasks will be small in many circumstances, often under 10 ins.
847	symbolic	2008	Ollinger, M; Jones, G; Knoblich, G	Investigating the effect of mental set on insight problem solving	EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Mental set is the tendency to solve certain problems in a fixed way based on previous solutions to similar problems. The moment of insight occurs when a problem cannot be solved using solution methods suggested by prior experience and the problem solver suddenly realizes that the solution requires different solution methods. Mental set and insight have often been linked together and yet no attempt thus far has systematically examined the interplay between the two. Three experiments are presented that examine the extent to which sets of noninsight and insight problems affect the subsequent solutions of insight test problems. The results indicate a subtle interplay between mental set and insight: when the set involves noninsight problems, no mental set effects are shown for the insight test problems, yet when the set involves insight problems, both facilitation and inhibition can be seen depending on the type of insight problem presented in the set. A two process model is detailed to explain these findings that combines the representational change mechanism with that of proceduralization.
848	symbolic	2005	Nason, S; Laird, JE	Soar-RL: integrating reinforcement learning with soar	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In this paper, we describe an architectural modi. cation to Soar that gives a Soar agent the opportunity to learn statistical information about the past success of its actions and utilize this information when selecting an operator. This mechanism serves the same purpose as production utilities in ACT-R, but the implementation is more directly tied to the standard definition of the reinforcement learning (RL) problem. The paper explains our implementation, gives a rationale for adding an RL capability to Soar, and shows results for Soar-RL agents' performance on two tasks. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
849	symbolic	2009	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA; Borst, JP	Toward a Unified Theory of the Multitasking Continuum: From Concurrent Performance to Task Switching, Interruption, and Resumption	CHI2009: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 27TH ANNUAL CHI CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1-4	Multitasking in user behavior can be represented along a continuum in terms of the time spent on one task before switching to another. In this paper, we present a theory of behavior along the multitasking continuum, from concurrent tasks with rapid switching to sequential tasks with longer time between switching. Our theory unifies several theoretical effects - the ACT-R cognitive architecture, the threaded cognition theory of concurrent multitasking, and the memory-for-goals theory of interruption and resumption to better understand and predict multitasking behavior. We outline the theory and discuss how it accounts for numerous phenomena in the recent empirical literature.
850	symbolic	2007	Anderson, JR; Qin, YL; Jung, KJ; Carter, CS	Information-processing modules and their relative modality specificity	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	This research uses fMRI to understand the role of eight cortical regions in a relatively complex information-processing task. Modality of input (Visual versus auditory) and modality of output (manual versus vocal) are manipulated. Two perceptual regions (auditory cortex and fusiform gyrus) only reflected perceptual encoding. Two motor regions were involved in information rehearsal as well as programming of overt actions. Two cortical regions (parietal and prefrontal) performed processing (retrieval and representational change) independent of input and output modality. The final two regions (anterior cingulate and caudate) were involved in control of cognition independent of modality of input or output and content of the material. An information-processing model, based on the ACT-R theory, is described that predicts the BOLD response in these regions. Different modules in the theory vary in the degree to which they are modality-specific and the degree to which they are involved in central versus peripheral cognitive processes. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
851	symbolic	2000	Bryson, J	Cross-paradigm analysis of autonomous agent architecture	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Autonomous agent architectures are design methodologies-collections of knowledge and strategies which are applied to the problem of creating situated intelligence. This article attempts to integrate this knowledge across several architectural traditions, paying particular attention to features which have tended to be selected under the pressure of extensive use in real-world systems. We determine that the following strategies provide significant assistance in the design of autonomous intelligent agents: (i) modularity, which simplifies both design and control; (ii) hierarchically organized action selection, which focusses attention and provides prioritization when different modules conflict; and (iii) parallel environment monitoring which allows a system to be responsive and opportunistic by allowing attention to shift and priorities to be re-evaluated. We offer a review of four architectural paradigms: behaviour-based AI; two- and three-layered systems; belief, desire and intention architectures (particularly PRS); and Soar/ACT-R. By documenting trends within each of these communities towards establishing the components above, we argue that this convergent evolution is strong evidence for the components' utility. We then use this information to recommend specific strategies for researchers working under each paradigm to further exploit the knowledge and experience of the field as a whole.
852	symbolic	2001	Salvucci, DD; Anderson, JR	Integrating analogical mapping and general problem solving: the path-mapping theory	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article describes the path-mapping theory of how humans integrate analogical mapping and general problem solving. The theory posits that humans represent analogs with declarative roles, map analogs by lower-level retrieval of analogous role paths, and coordinate mappings with higher-level organizational knowledge. Implemented in the ACT-R cognitive architecture, the path-mapping theory enables models of analogical mapping behavior to incorporate and interface with other problem-solving knowledge. Path-mapping models thus can include task-specific skills such as encoding analogs or generating responses, and can make behavioral predictions at the level of real-world metrics such as latency or correctness. We show that the path-mapping theory can successfully account for the major phenomena addressed by previous theories of analogy. We also describe a path-mapping model that can account for subjects' incremental eye-movement and typing behavior in a story-mapping task. We discuss extensions and implications of this work to other areas of analogy and problem-solving research. (C) 2001 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
853	symbolic	2000	Peterson, SA; Simon, TJ	Computational evidence for the subitizing phenomenon as an emergent property of the human cognitive architecture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A computational modeling approach was used to test one possible explanation for the limited capacity of the subitizing phenomenon. Most existing models of this phenomenon associate the subitizing span;with an assumed structural limitation of the human information processing system. In contrast, we show how this limit might emerge as the combinatorics of the space of enumeration problems interacts with the human cognitive architecture in the context of an enumeration task. Subitizing-like behavior was generated in two different models of enumeration, one based on the ACT-R cognitive architecture and the other based on the principles of parallel distributed processing (PDP). Our results provide good qualitative fits to results obtained in a variety of empirical studies.
854	symbolic	2008	Stocco, A; Anderson, JR	Endogenous control and task representation: An fMRI study in algebraic problem-solving	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The roles of prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices have been widely studied, yet little is known on how they interact to enable complex cognitive abilities. We investigated this issue in a complex yet well-defined symbolic paradigm: algebraic problem solving. In our experimental problems, the demands for retrieving arithmetic facts and maintaining intermediate problem representations were manipulated separately. An analysis of functional brain images acquired while participants were solving the problems confirmed that prefrontal regions were affected by the retrieval of arithmetic facts, but only scarcely by the need to manipulate intermediate forms of the equations, hinting at a specific role in memory retrieval. Hemodynamic activity in the dorsal cingulate, on the contrary, increased monotonically as more information processing steps had to be taken, independent of their nature. This pattern was essentially mimicked in the caudate nucleus, suggesting a related functional role in the control of cognitive actions. We also implemented a computational model within the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture, which was able to reproduce both the behavioral data and the time course of the hemodynamic activity in a number of relevant regions of interest. Therefore, imaging results and computer simulation provide evidence that symbolic cognition can be explained by the functional interaction of medial structures supporting control and serial execution, and prefrontal cortices engaged in the on-line retrieval of specific relevant information.
855	symbolic	2014	van Rijn, H; Gu, BM; Meck, WH	Dedicated Clock/Timing-Circuit Theories of Time Perception and Timed Performance	NEUROBIOLOGY OF INTERVAL TIMING	Scalar Timing Theory (an information-processing version of Scalar Expectancy Theory) and its evolution into the neurobiologically plausible Striatal Beat-Frequency (SBF) theory of interval timing are reviewed. These pacemaker/accumulator or oscillation/coincidence detection models are then integrated with the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture as dedicated timing modules that are able to make use of the memory and decision-making mechanisms contained in ACT-R. The different predictions made by the incorporation of these timing modules into ACT-R are discussed as well as the potential limitations. Novel implementations of the original SBF model that allow it to be incorporated into ACT-R in a more fundamental fashion than the earlier simulations of Scalar Timing Theory are also considered in conjunction with the proposed properties and neural correlates of the "internal clock".
856	symbolic	2007	Lungu, C; Dias, JP; de Franca, CE; Ongali, B; Regoli, D; Moldovan, F; Couture, R	Involvement of kinin B-1 receptor and oxidative stress in sensory abnormalities and arterial hypertension in an experimental rat model of insulin resistance	NEUROPEPTIDES	Diabetes Mellitus leads to pain neuropathy and cardiovascular complications which remain resistant to current therapies involving the control of glycaemia. This study aims at defining the contribution of kinin B-1 receptor (B1R) and the oxidative stress on sensory abnormalities and arterial hypertension in a rat model of insulin resistance. Rats were fed with 10% D-glucose for a chronic period of 12-14 weeks and the impact of a diet supplemented with alpha-lipoic acid, a potent antioxidant, was determined on tactile and cold allodynia, arterial hypertension and the expression of kinin B1R (real-time PCR and autoradiography) in several tissues. Acute effects of brain penetrant (LF22-0542) and peripherally acting (R-715) B1R antagonists were also assessed. Glucose-fed rats exhibited tactile and cold allodynia along with increases in systolic blood pressure between 4 and 12 weeks; these alterations were alleviated by alpha-lipoic acid. The latter regimen also decreased significantly increased plasma levels of insulin and glucose and insulin resistance (HOMA index) at 14 weeks. B1R mRNA was virtually absent in liver, aorta, lung, kidney and spinal cord isolated from control rats, yet B1R mRNA was markedly increased in all tissues in glucose-fed rats. Up-regulated B1R mRNA and BIR binding sites (spinal cord) were significantly reduced by cc-lipoic acid in glucose-fed rats. LF22-0542 reduced tactile and cold allodynia, (3 h) and reversed arterial hypertension (3-48 h) in glucose-fed rats. R-715 abolished tactile and cold allodynia but had not effect on blood pressure. Data suggest that the oxidative stress contributes to the induction and up-regulation of BIR in the model of insulin resistance induced by glucose feeding. The over expressed BIR contributes centrally to arterial hypertension and in the periphery to sensory abnormalities. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
857	symbolic	2004	Anderson, JR; Qin, YL; Stenger, VA; Carter, CS	The relationship of three cortical regions to an information-processing model	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	This research tests a model of the computational role of three cortical regions in tasks like algebra equation solving. The model assumes that there is a left parietal region-of-interest (ROI) where the problem expression is represented and transformed, a left prefrontal ROI where information for solving the task is retrieved, and a motor ROI where hand movements to produce the answer are programmed. A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of an abstract symbol-manipulation task was performed to articulate the roles of these three regions. Participants learned to associate words with instructions for transforming strings of letters. The study manipulated the need to retrieve these instructions, the need to transform the strings, and whether there was a delay between calculation of the answer and the output of the answer. As predicted, the left parietal ROI mainly reflected the need for a transformation and the left prefrontal ROI the need for retrieval. Homologous right ROIs showed similar but weaker responses. Neither the prefrontal nor the parietal ROIs responded to delay, but the motor ROI did respond to delay, implying motor rehearsal over the delay. Except for the motor ROI, these patterns of activity did not vary with response hand. In an ACT-R model, it was shown that the activity of an imaginal buffer predicted the blood oxygen level-dependent ( BOLD) response of the parietal ROI, the activity of a retrieval buffer predicted the response of the prefrontal ROI, and the activity of a manual buffer predicted the response of the motor ROI.
858	symbolic	2009	Rosenberg-Lee, M; Lovett, MC; Anderson, JR	Neural correlates of arithmetic calculation strategies	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Recent research into math cognition has identified areas of the brain that are involved in number processing (Dehaene, Piazza, Pinel, & Cohen, 2003) and complex problem solving (Anderson, 2007). Much of this research assumes that participants use a single strategy; yet, behavioral research finds that people use a variety of strategies (LeFevre et al., 1996; Siegler, 1987; Siegler & Lemaire, 1997). In the present study, we examined cortical activation as a function of two different calculation strategies for mentally solving multidigit multiplication problems. The school strategy, equivalent to long multiplication, involves working from right to left. The expert strategy, used by "lightning" mental calculators (Staszewski, 1988), proceeds from left to right. The two strategies require essentially the same calculations, but have different working memory demands (the school strategy incurs greater demands). The school strategy produced significantly greater early activity in areas involved in attentional aspects of number processing (posterior superior parietal lobule, PSPL) and mental representation (posterior parietal cortex, PPC), but not in a numerical magnitude area (horizontal intraparietal sulcus, HIPS) or a semantic memory retrieval area (lateral inferior prefrontal cortex, LIPFC). An ACT-R model of the task successfully predicted BOLD responses in PPC and LIPFC, as well as in PSPL and HIPS.
859	symbolic	2009	Gemrot, J; Kadlec, R; Bida, M; Burkert, O; Pibil, R; Havlicek, J; Zemcak, L; Simlovic, J; Vansa, R; Stolba, M; Plch, T; Brom, C	Pogamut 3 Can Assist Developers in Building AI (Not Only) for Their Videogame Agents	AGENTS FOR GAMES AND SIMULATIONS: TRENDS IN TECHNIQUES, CONCEPTS AND DESIGN	Many research projects oriented on control mechanisms of virtual agents in videogames have emerged in recent years. However, this boost has not been accompanied with the emergence of toolkits supporting development of these projects, slowing down the progress in the field. Here, we present Pogamut 3, an open source platform for rapid development of behaviour for virtual agents embodied in a 3D environment of the Unreal Tournament 2004 videogame. Pogamut 3 is designed to support research as well as educational projects. The paper also briefly touches extensions of Pogamut 3; the ACT-R integration, the emotional model ALMA integration, support for control of avatars at the level of gestures, and a toolkit for developing educational scenarios concerning orientation in urban areas. These extensions make Pogamut 3 applicable beyond the domain of computer games.
860	symbolic	2008	Anderson, JR; Carter, CS; Fincham, JM; Qin, Y; Ravizza, SM; Rosenberg-Lee, M	Using fMRI to Test Models of Complex Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article investigates the potential of fMRI to test assumptions about different components in models of complex cognitive tasks. If the components of a model can be associated with specific brain regions, one can make predictions for the temporal course of the BOLD response in these regions. An event-locked procedure is described for dealing with temporal variability and bringing model runs and individual data trials into alignment. Statistical methods for testing the model are described that deal with the scan-to-scan correlations in the errors of measurement of the BOLD signal. This approach is illustrated using a sacrificial ACT-R model that involves mapping 6 modules onto 6 brain regions in an experiment from Ravizza, Anderson, and Carter (in press) concerned with equation solving. The model's visual encoding predicted the BOLD response in the fusiform gyrus, its controlled retrieval predicted the BOLD response in the lateral inferior prefrontal cortex, and its subgoal setting predicted the BOLD response in the anterior cingulate cortex. On the other hand, its motor programming failed to predict anticipatory activation in the motor cortex, its representational changes failed to predicted the pattern of activity in the posterior parietal cortex, and its procedural component failed to predict an initial spike in caudate. The results illustrate the power of such data to direct the development of a theory of complex problem solving, both at the level of a specific task model as well as at the level of the cognitive architecture.
861	symbolic	2003	van Rijn, H; van Someren, M; van der Maas, H	Modeling developmental transitions on the balance scale task	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Periods of relatively stable, rule-like behavior alternated with short transition periods characterize cognitive development on reasoning tasks like the balance scale task. Each transition gives rise to an improvement in behavior, until a phase is reached in which performance is flawless or improvement is not worthwhile given the necessary extra effort. Several computational models have been developed to capture the developmental phenomena associated with the balance scale task. These models, which originate from different computational traditions, explain the main phenomena of development. Recently, empirical phenomena have been reported that these models cannot easily accommodate. We propose a computational model that is implemented in ACT-R and that is based on the evaluation of success of applied knowledge, combined with a mechanism to construct new knowledge by searching for differences between the left- and right-hand sides of presented balance scale problems. This model accounts for the main empirical phenomena as well as for the recently reported empirical phenomena such as learning without feedback. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
862	symbolic	2009	Gunzelmann, G; Gross, JB; Gluck, KA; Dinges, DF	Sleep Deprivation and Sustained Attention Performance: Integrating Mathematical and Cognitive Modeling	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A long history of research has revealed many neurophysiological changes and concomitant behavioral impacts of sleep deprivation, sleep restriction, and circadian rhythms. Little research, however, has been conducted in the area of computational cognitive modeling to understand the information processing mechanisms through which neurobehavioral factors operate to produce degradations in human performance. Our approach to understanding this relationship is to link predictions of overall cognitive functioning, or alertness, from existing biomathematical models to information processing parameters in a cognitive architecture, leveraging the strengths from each to develop a more comprehensive explanation. The integration of these methodologies is used to account for changes in human performance on a sustained attention task across 88 h of total sleep deprivation. The integrated model captures changes due to time awake and circadian rhythms, and it also provides an account for underlying changes in the cognitive processes that give rise to those effects. The results show the potential for developing mechanistic accounts of how fatigue impacts cognition, and they illustrate the increased explanatory power that is possible by combining theoretical insights from multiple methodologies.
863	symbolic	2013	Reisenzein, R; Hudlicka, E; Dastani, M; Gratch, J; Hindriks, K; Lorini, E; Meyer, JJC	Computational Modeling of Emotion: Toward Improving the Inter- and Intradisciplinary Exchange	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AFFECTIVE COMPUTING	The past years have seen increasing cooperation between psychology and computer science in the field of computational modeling of emotion. However, to realize its potential, the exchange between the two disciplines, as well as the intradisciplinary coordination, should be further improved. We make three proposals for how this could be achieved. The proposals refer to: 1) systematizing and classifying the assumptions of psychological emotion theories; 2) formalizing emotion theories in implementation-independent formal languages (set theory, agent logics); and 3) modeling emotions using general cognitive architectures (such as Soar and ACT-R), general agent architectures (such as the BDI architecture) or general-purpose affective agent architectures. These proposals share two overarching themes. The first is a proposal for modularization: deconstruct emotion theories into basic assumptions; modularize architectures. The second is a proposal for unification and standardization: Translate different emotion theories into a common informal conceptual system or a formal language, or implement them in a common architecture.
864	symbolic	2011	Skowron, A; Wasilewski, P	Information systems in modeling interactive computations on granules	THEORETICAL COMPUTER SCIENCE	In this paper, we discuss the importance of information systems in modeling interactive computations performed on (complex) granules and we propose a formal approach to interactive computations based on generalized information systems and rough sets which can be combined with other soft computing paradigms such as fuzzy sets or evolutionary computing, but also with machine learning and data mining techniques. Information systems are treated as dynamic granules used for representing the results of the interaction of attributes with the environment. Two kinds of attributes are distinguished, namely, the perception attributes, including sensory attributes, and the action attributes. Sensory attributes are the basic perception attributes, other perception attributes are constructed on the basis of the sensory ones. Actions are activated when their guards, being often complex and vague concepts, are satisfied to a satisfactory degree. The guards can be approximated on the basis of measurements performed by sensory attributes rather than defined exactly. Satisfiability degrees for guards are results of reasoning called the adaptive judgment. The approximations are induced using hierarchical modeling. We show that information systems can be used for modeling more advanced forms of interactions in hierarchical modeling. The role of hierarchical interactions is emphasized in the modeling of interactive computations. Some illustrative examples of interactions used in the ACT-R 6.0 system are reported. ACT-R 6.0 is based on a cognitive architecture and can be treated as an example of a highly interactive complex granule which can be involved in hierarchical interactions. For modeling of interactive computations, we propose much more general information systems than the studied dynamic information systems (see, e.g., Ciucci (2010) [8] and Palasinski and Pancerz (2010)[32]). For example, the dynamic information systems are making it possible to consider incremental changes in information systems. However, they do not contain the perception and action attributes necessary for modeling interactive computations, in particular for modeling intrastep interactions. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
865	symbolic	2011	Marewski, JN; Mehlhorn, K	Using the ACT-R architecture to specify 39 quantitative process models of decision making	JUDGMENT AND DECISION MAKING	Hypotheses about decision processes are often formulated qualitatively and remain silent about the interplay of decision, memorial, and other cognitive processes. At the same time, existing decision models are specified at varying levels of detail, making it difficult to compare them. We provide a methodological primer on how detailed cognitive architectures such as ACT-R allow remedying these problems. To make our point, we address a controversy, namely, whether noncompensatory or compensatory processes better describe how people make decisions from the accessibility of memories. We specify 39 models of accessibility-based decision processes in ACT-R, including the noncompensatory recognition heuristic and various other popular noncompensatory and compensatory decision models. Additionally, to illustrate how such models can be tested, we conduct a model comparison, fitting the models to one experiment and letting them generalize to another. Behavioral data are best accounted for by race models. These race models embody the noncompensatory recognition heuristic and compensatory models as a race between competing processes, dissolving the dichotomy between existing decision models.
866	symbolic	2011	Anderson, JR; Betts, S; Ferris, JL; Fincham, JM	Cognitive and metacognitive activity in mathematical problem solving: prefrontal and parietal patterns	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Students were taught an algorithm for solving a new class of mathematical problems. Occasionally in the sequence of problems, they encountered exception problems that required that they extend the algorithm. Regular and exception problems were associated with different patterns of brain activation. Some regions showed a Cognitive pattern of being active only until the problem was solved and no difference between regular or exception problems. Other regions showed a Metacognitive pattern of greater activity for exception problems and activity that extended into the post-solution period, particularly when an error was made. The Cognitive regions included some of parietal and prefrontal regions associated with the triple-code theory of (Dehaene, S., Piazza, M., Pinel, P., & Cohen, L. (2003). Three parietal circuits for number processing. Cognitive Neuropsychology, 20, 487-506) and associated with algebra equation solving in the ACT-R theory (Anderson, J. R. (2005). Human symbol manipulation within an 911 integrated cognitive architecture. Cognitive science, 29, 313-342. Metacognitive regions included the superior prefrontal gyrus, the angular gyrus of the triple-code theory, and frontopolar regions.
867	symbolic	2005	Byrne, MD; Kirlik, A	Using computational cognitive modeling to diagnose possible sources of aviation error	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AVIATION PSYCHOLOGY	We present a computational model of a closed-loop, pilot-aircraft-visual scene-taxiway system created to shed light on possible sources of taxi error. The creation of the cognitive aspects of the model with ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) required us to conduct studies with subject matter experts to identify the experiential adaptations pilots bring to taxiing. Five decision strategies were found, ranging from cognitively intensive but precise to fast and frugal but robust. We provide evidence for the model by comparing its behavior to a National Aeronautics and Space Administration Ames Research Center simulation of Chicago O'Hare Surface operations. Decision horizons were highly variable: the model selected the most accurate strategy given the time available. We found a signature in the simulation data of the use of globally robust heuristics to cope with short decision horizons as revealed by the errors occurring most frequently at atypical taxiway geometries or clearance routes. These data provided empirical support for the model.
868	symbolic	2004	Budiu, R; Anderson, JR	Interpretation-based processing: a unified theory of semantic sentence comprehension	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present interpretation-based processing-a theory of sentence processing that builds a syntactic and a semantic representation for a sentence and assigns an interpretation to the sentence as soon as possible. That interpretation can further participate in comprehension and in lexical processing and is vital for relating the sentence to the prior discourse. Our theory offers a unified account of the processing of literal sentences, metaphoric sentences, and sentences containing semantic illusions. It also explains how text can prime lexical access. We show that word literality is a matter of degree and that the speed and quality of comprehension depend both on how similar words are to their antecedents in the preceding text and how salient the sentence is with respect to the preceding text. Interpretation-based processing also reconciles superficially contradictory findings about the difference in processing times for metaphors and literals. The theory has been implemented in ACT-R [Anderson and Lebiere, The Atomic Components of Thought, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Publishers, Mahwah, NJ, 1998]. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
869	symbolic	2007	Serna, A; Pigot, H; Rialle, V	Modeling the progression of Alzheimer's disease for cognitive assistance in smart homes	USER MODELING AND USER-ADAPTED INTERACTION	Smart homes provide support to cognitively impaired people (such as those suffering from Alzheimer's disease) so that they can remain at home in an autonomous and safe way. Models of this impaired population should benefit the cognitive assistance's efficiency and responsiveness. This paper presents a way to model and simulate the progression of dementia of the Alzheimer's type by evaluating performance in the execution of an activity of daily living (ADL). This model satisfies three objectives: first, it models an activity of daily living; second, it simulates the progression of the dementia and the errors potentially made by people suffering from it, and, finally, it simulates the support needed by the impaired person. To develop this model, we chose the ACT-R cognitive architecture, which uses symbolic and subsymbolic representations. The simulated results of 100 people suffering from Alzheimer's disease closely resemble the results obtained by 106 people on an occupational assessment (the Kitchen Task Assessment).
870	symbolic	2001	Anderson, JR; Budiu, R; Reder, LM	A theory of sentence memory as part of a general theory of memory	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	We describe an ACT-R model for sentence memory that extracts both a parsed surface representation and a propositional representation. In addition, if possible for each sentence, pointers are added to a long-term memory referent which reflects past experience with the situation described in the sentence, This system accounts for basic results in sentence memory without assuming different retention functions for surface, propositional, or situational information. There is better retention for gist than for surface information because of the greater complexity of the surface representation and because of the greater practice of the referent for the sentence. This model's only inference during sentence comprehension is to insert a pointer to an existing referent. Nonetheless, by this means it is capable of modeling many effects attributed to inferential processing. The ACT-R architecture also provides a mechanism for mixing the various memory strategies that participants bring to bear in these experiments. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
871	symbolic	2012	van Maanen, L; van Rijn, H; Taatgen, N	RACE/A: An Architectural Account of the Interactions Between Learning, Task Control, and Retrieval Dynamics	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article discusses how sequential sampling models can be integrated in a cognitive architecture. The new theory Retrieval by Accumulating Evidence in an Architecture (RACE/A) combines the level of detail typically provided by sequential sampling models with the level of task complexity typically provided by cognitive architectures. We will use RACE/A to model data from two variants of a pictureword interference task in a psychological refractory period design. These models will demonstrate how RACE/A enables interactions between sequential sampling and long-term declarative learning, and between sequential sampling and task control. In a traditional sequential sampling model, the onset of the process within the task is unclear, as is the number of sampling processes. RACE/A provides a theoretical basis for estimating the onset of sequential sampling processes during task execution and allows for easy modeling of multiple sequential sampling processes within a task.
872	symbolic	2006	Fleetwood, MD; Byrne, MD	Modeling the visual search of displays: A revised ACT-R model of icon search based on eye-tracking data	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	Because of the visual nature of computer use, researchers and designers of computer systems would like to gain some insight into the visual search strategies of computer users. Icons, a common component of graphical user interfaces, serve as the focus for a set of studies aimed at (1) developing a detailed understanding of how people search for an icon in a typically crowded screen of other icons that vary in similarity to the target, and (2) building a cognitively plausible model that simulates the processes inferred in the human search process. An eye-tracking study of the task showed that participants rarely refixated icons that they had previously examined, and that participants used an efficient search strategy of examining distractor icons nearest to their current point of gaze. These findings were integrated into an ACT-R model of the task using EMMA and a "nearest" strategy. The model fit the response time data of participants as well as a previous model of the task, but was a much better fit to the eye movement data.
873	symbolic	2004	Peebles, D; Bothell, D	Modelling performance in the sustained attention to response task	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	We present a computational model of human performance on the Sustained Attention to Response Task, a computer-based task in which people must withhold responses to infrequent and unpredictable stimuli during a period of rapid and rhythmic responding to frequent stimuli. The model, formulated within the ACT-R cognitive architecture, accounts for human performance in terms of two competing strategies and the dynamic modification of priorities given competing task demands to minimise both response time and error. The model suggests that such strategic factors may be responsible for the observed speed-accuracy trade-off rather than the alternative proposal based on sustained attention.
874	symbolic	2007	Chong, HQ; Tan, AH; Ng, GW	Integrated cognitive architectures: a survey	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	This article aims to present an account of the state of the art research in the field of integrated cognitive architectures by providing a review of six cognitive architectures, namely Soar, ACT-R, ICARUS, BDI, the subsumption architecture and CLARION. We conduct a detailed functional comparison by looking at a wide range of cognitive components, including perception, memory, goal representation, planning, problem solving, reasoning, learning, and relevance to neurobiology. In addition, we study the range of benchmarks and applications that these architectures have been applied to. Although no single cognitive architecture has provided a full solution with the level of human intelligence, important design principles have emerged, pointing to promising directions towards generic and scalable architectures with close analogy to human brains.
875	symbolic	2010	Samsonovich, AV	Toward a Unified Catalog of Implemented Cognitive Architectures	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES 2010	This work is a review of the online Comparative Table of Cognitive Architectures (the version that was available at http://bicasymposium.com/cogarch on September 20, 2010). This continuously updated online resource is a collective product of many researchers and developers of cognitive architectures. Names of its contributors (sorted alphabetically by the represented architecture name) are: James S. Albus (4D/RCS), Christian Lebiere and Andrea Stocco (ACT-R), Stephen Grossberg (ART), Brandon Rohrer (BECCA), Balakrishnan Chandrasekaran and Unmesh Kurup (biSoar), Raul Arrabales (CERA-CRANIUM), Fernand Gobet and Peter Lane (CHREST), Ron Sun (CLARION), Ben Goertzel (CogPrime), Frank Ritter and Rick Evertsz (CoJACK), George Tecuci (Disciple), Shane Mueller (EPIC), Susan L. Epstein (FORR), Stuart C. Shapiro (GLAIR), Alexei Samsonovich (GMU BICA), Jeff Hawkins (HTM), David C. Noelle (Leabra), Stan Franklin (LIDA), Pei Wang (NARS), Akshay Vashist and Shoshana Loeb (Nexting), Cyril Brom (Pogamut), Nick Cassimatis (Polyscheme), L. Andrew Coward (Recommendation Architecture), Ashok Goel, J. William Murdock and Spencer Rugaber (REM), John Laird (Soar), and Kristinn Thorisson (Ymir). All these contributions are summarized in this work in a form that makes the described architectures easy to compare against each other.
876	symbolic	2005	Lovett, MC	A strategy-based interpretation of stroop	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Most accounts of the Stroop effect (Stroop, 1935) emphasize its negative aspect, namely, that in particular situations, processing of an irrelevant stimulus dimension interferes with participants' performance of the instructed task. In contrast, this paper emphasizes the fact that, even with that interference, participants actually can (and usually do) exert enough control to perform the instructed task. An Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) model of the Stroop task interprets this as a kind of learned strategic control. Specifically, the concept of utility is applied to the two processes that compete in the Stroop task, and a utility-learning mechanism serves to update the corresponding utility values according to experience and hence influence the competition. This model both accounts for various extant Stroop results and makes novel predictions about when people can reduce their susceptibility to Stroop interference. These predictions are tested in three experiments that involve a double-response variant of the Stroop task.
877	symbolic	2008	Parmentier, FBR; Maybery, MT	Equivalent Effects of Grouping by Time, Voice, and Location on Response Timing in Verbal Serial Memory	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	The grouping of list items is known to improve serial memory accuracy and constrain the nature of temporal errors. A recent study (M. T. Maybery, F. B. R. Parmentier, & D. M. Jones, 2002) showed that grouping results in a temporal organization of the participants' responses that mimics the list structure but not the timing of its presentation. Here the authors tested the prediction that the temporal grouping of responses should yield the same pattern of response time (RT) irrespective of the method of grouping at presentation. Comparing temporal, location, and voice grouping, the results show that although these methods impact on recall accuracy to varying degrees, all 3 conditions produce significant and equivalent peaks in RT at the first position of each group. The RT data were accurately simulated through a model based on ACT-R's (J. R. Anderson & M. Matessa, 1997) basic principles. Altogether, the data suggest that the temporal organization of responses in verbal serial recall results from (a) declarative knowledge about the list's structure that is independent of the perceptual means by which grouping is induced at presentation and (b) the level of activation of the items per se.
878	symbolic	2008	Chung, PH; Byrne, MD	Cue effectiveness in mitigating postcompletion errors in a routine procedural task	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	Postcompletion errors, which are omissions of actions required after the completion of a task's main goal, occur in a variety of everyday procedural tasks. Previous research has demonstrated the difficulty of reducing their frequency by means other than redesigning the task structure [Byrne, M.D., Davis, E.M., 2006. Task structure and postcompletion error in the execution of a routine procedure. Human Factors 48, 627-638]. Nevertheless, finding a successful strategy for mitigation of this type of error may uncover important mechanisms underlying interactive behavior. Two experiments were carried out to test visual cues for their ability to reduce the frequency of postcompletion errors in a computer-based routine procedural task. A cue that was visually salient, just-in-time, and meaningful entirely eliminated the error, whereas cues that were not as specific were ineffective. These results are beyond the predictive capability of extant error identification methods and common design guidelines but are consistent with the work of Altmann and Trafton [2002. Memory for goals: an activation-based model. Cognitive Science 26, 39-83] and Hollnagel [1993. Human Reliability Analysis, Context and Control. Academic Press, London]. Finally, a computational model developed in ACT-R is presented as a first step towards validation of the major findings from the two experiments. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
879	symbolic	2005	Altmann, EM; Burns, BD	Streak biases in decision making: data and a memory model	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Streaks of past outcomes, for example of gains or losses in the stock market, are one source of information for a decision maker trying to predict the next outcome in the series. We examine how prediction biases based on streaks change as a function of length of the current streak. Participants experienced a sequence of 150 flips of a simulated coin. On the first of a streak of heads, participants showed positive recency, meaning that they predicted heads for the next outcome with a greater-than-baseline probability. As streak length increased, positive recency. rst decreased but then increased again, producing a quadratic trend. We explain these results in terms of outcome-prediction processes that are sensitive to the historical frequency of streak lengths and that make heuristic assumptions about changes in bias of the outcome-generating process (here, the coin). An ACT-R simulation captures the quadratic trend in positive recency, as well as the baseline heads bias, in two experimental conditions with different coin biases. We discuss our memory-based model in relation to a model from the domain of economics that posits explicit representation of an ''urn'' from which events are sampled without replacement. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
880	symbolic	2000	Matessa, M; Anderson, JR	Modelling focused learning in role assignment	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	ACT-R is a general theory of cognition (Anderson, 1993; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) which is capable of learning the relative usefulness of alternative rules. In this paper, a model utilising this implicit procedural learning mechanism is described which explains results from a concept formation task created by McDonald and MacWhinney (1991), a role assignment task for artificial languages created by Blackwell (1995), and a new role assignment experiment, By focusing learning on one cue of role assignment at a time, the model predicts a blocking phenomenon where certain cues can dominate and partially block the learning of other cues. In all of the experiments, subjects' trial-by-trial use of cues is better predicted by the ACT-R model than by a pure learning-on-error model that learns all cues simultaneously.
881	symbolic	2000	Jones, G; Ritter, FE; Wood, DJ	Using a cognitive architecture to examine what develops	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Different theories of development propose alternative mechanisms by which development occurs. Cognitive architectures can be used to examine the influence of each proposed mechanism of development while keeping all other mechanisms constant. An ACT-R computational model that matched adult behavior in solving a 21-block pyramid puzzle was created. The model was modified in three ways that corresponded to mechanisms of development proposed by developmental theories. The results showed that all the modifications (two of capacity and one of strategy choice) could approximate the behavior of 7-year-old children on the task. The strategy-choice modification provided the closest match on the two central measures of task behavior (time taken per layer, r = .99, and construction attempts per layer, r = .73). Modifying cognitive architectures is a fruitful way to compare and test potential developmental mechanisms, and can therefore help in specifying "what develops."
882	symbolic	2007	van Maanen, L; van Rijn, H	An accumulator model of semantic interference	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	To explain latency effects in picture-word interference tasks, cognitive models need to account for both interference and stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) effects. As opposed to most models of picture-word interference, which model the time course during the task in a ballistic manner, the RACE model (retrieval by accumulating evidence) presented in this paper accounts for semantic interference during the interval between the retrieval onset and the actual retrieval. RACE is implemented as an extension to the ACT-R architecture of cognition. By modeling the retrieval process, RACE offers a more precise account of semantic memory retrieval latencies in different interference and SOA conditions than other ACT-R models. In this paper, we discuss the architectural assumptions underlying RACE and simulations of a picture-word interference experiment [Glaser, W. R., & Dungelhoff. F. J. (1984). The time course of picture-word interference.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 10( 5), pp. 640 - 654.]. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
883	symbolic	2005	St Amant, R; Freed, AR; Ritter, FE	Specifying ACT-R models of user interaction with a GOMS language	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We describe a system, G2A, that produces ACT-R models from GOMS models. The GOMS models can contain hierarchical methods, visual and memory stores, and control constructs. G2A allows ACT-R models to be built much more quickly, in hours rather than weeks. Because GOMS is a more abstract formalism than ACT-R, most GOMS operators can be plausibly translated in different ways into ACT-R productions (e.g., a GOMS Look-for operator can be carried out by different visual search strategies in ACT-R). Given a GOMS model, G2A generates and evaluates alternative ACT-R models by systematically varying the mapping of GOMS operators to ACT-R productions. In experiments with a text editing task, G2A produces ACT-R models whose predictions are within 5% of GOMS model predictions. In the same domain, G2A also generates ACT-R models that give better predictions than GOMS, providing good predictions of overall task duration for actual users (within 2%), though the models are less accurate at a detailed level. In a separate experiment with a mouse-driven telephone dialing task, G2A produces models that do a better job of distinguishing between competing interfaces than a Fitts' law model or an ACT-R model built by hand. G2A starts to describe the relationship between two major theories of cognition. This may have appeared a simple relationship, but the complexity of the translation illustrates why this was not done before. G2A shows a way forward for cognitive models, that of higher level languages that compile into more detailed specifications. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
884	symbolic	2012	Schneider, DW; Anderson, JR	Modeling fan effects on the time course of associative recognition	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	We investigated the time course of associative recognition using the response signal procedure, whereby a stimulus is presented and followed after a variable lag by a signal indicating that an immediate response is required. More specifically, we examined the effects of associative fan (the number of associations that an item has with other items in memory) on speed-accuracy tradeoff functions obtained in a previous response signal experiment involving briefly studied materials and in a new experiment involving well-learned materials. High fan lowered asymptotic accuracy or the rate of rise in accuracy across lags, or both. We developed an Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) model for the response signal procedure to explain these effects. The model assumes that high fan results in weak associative activation that slows memory retrieval, thereby decreasing the probability that retrieval finishes in time and producing a speed-accuracy tradeoff function. The ACT-R model provided an excellent account of the data, yielding quantitative fits that were as good as those of the best descriptive model for response signal data. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
885	symbolic	2008	Dubey, A; Keller, F; Sturt, P	A probabilistic corpus-based model of syntactic parallelism	COGNITION	Work in experimental psycholinguistics has shown that the processing of coordinate structures is facilitated when the two conjuncts share the same syntactic structure [Frazier, L., Munn, A., & Clifton, C. (2000). Processing coordinate structures. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 29(4) 343-370]. In the present paper, we argue that this parallelism effect is a specific case of the more general phenomenon of syntactic priming-the tendency to repeat recently used syntactic structures. We show that there is a significant tendency for structural repetition in corpora, and that this tendency is not limited to syntactic environments involving coordination, though it is greater in these environments. We present two different implementations of a syntactic priming mechanism in a probabilistic parsing model and test their predictions against experimental data on NP parallelism in English. Based on these results, we argue that a general purpose priming mechanism is preferred over a special mechanism limited to coordination. Finally, we show how notions of activation and decay from ACT-R can be incorporated in the model, enabling it to account for a set of experimental data on sentential parallelism in German. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
886	symbolic	2005	Kushleyeva, Y; Salvucci, DD; Lee, FJ	Deciding when to switch tasks in time-critical multitasking	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	While cognitive modeling has begun to make good progress in accounting for human multitasking behavior, current models typically focus on externally-driven task switching in laboratory-task settings. In contrast, many real-world complex tasks, particularly time-critical ones, involve internally-driven multitasking in which people themselves decide when to switch between tasks. In this paper, we propose an adaptation of the ACT-R cognitive architecture that incorporates a notion of elapsed time for the current goal and uses time to determine when to switch away from the current task. We demonstrate the usefulness of this mechanism in an application to a dynamic, time-critical dual search task, showing how an ACT-R model can account for various aspects of human subjects' multitasking behavior. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
887	symbolic	2003	Kelley, TD	Symbolic and sub-symbolic representations in computational models of human cognition - What can be learned from biology?	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	The debate over symbolic versus sub-symbolic representations of human cognition has been continuing for thirty years, with little indication of a resolution. The argument is this: Does the human cognitive system use symbols as a representation of knowledge, and does it process symbols and their respective constituents? Or does the human cognitive system use a distributed representation of knowledge, and is it somehow capable of processing this distributed representation of knowledge in a complex and meaningful way? This paper argues for an integrated symbolic and sub-symbolic approach to the representation of cognition. The lines of reasoning used as evidence to bolster this argument for an integrated approach are the cognitive architecture the Adaptive Character of Thought-Rational (ACT-R), and biology, where it is argued that symbolic and sub-symbolic representations of cognition are part of an intellectual continuum, with sub-symbolic representations at the low end and symbolic representations at the higher end.
888	symbolic	1993	LEBIERE, C; ANDERSON, JR	A CONNECTIONIST IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACT-R PRODUCTION SYSTEM	PROCEEDINGS OF THE FIFTEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	0
889	symbolic	2009	Liu, YL	QN-ACES: Integrating Queueing Network and ACT-R, CAPS, EPIC, and Soar Architectures for Multitask Cognitive Modeling	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	Comprehensive and computational models of human performance have both scientific and practical importance to human-machine system design and human-centered computing. This article describes QN-ACES, a cognitive architecture that aims to integrate two complementary classes of cognitive architectures: Queueing network (QN) mathematical architecture and ACT-R, CAPS, EPIC, and Soar (ACES) symbolic architectures. QN-ACES represents the fourth major step along the QN architecture development for theoretical and methodological unification in cognitive and human-computer interaction modeling. The first three stepsQN architecture for response time, QN-RMD (Reflected Multidimensional Diffusions) for response time, response accuracy, and mental architecture, and QN-MHP (Model Human Processor) for mathematical analysis and real time simulation of procedural tasksare summarized first, followed by a discussion of the rationale, importance and specific research issues of QN-ACES.
890	symbolic	2008	Lyon, DR; Gunzelmann, G; Gluck, KA	A computational model of spatial visualization capacity	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Visualizing spatial material is a cornerstone of human problem solving, but human visualization capacity is sharply limited. To investigate the sources of this limit, we developed a new task to measure visualization accuracy for verbally-described spatial paths (similar to street directions), and implemented a computational process model to perform it. In this model, developed within the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) architecture, visualization capacity is limited by three mechanisms. Two of these (associative interference and decay) are longstanding characteristics of ACT-R's declarative memory. A third (spatial interference) is a new mechanism motivated by spatial proximity effects in our data. We tested the model in two experiments, one with parameter-value fitting, and a replication without further fitting. Correspondence between model and data was close in both experiments, Suggesting that the model may be useful for understanding why Visualizing new, complex spatial material is so difficult. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
891	symbolic	2008	Gaissmaier, W; Schooler, LJ; Mata, R	An ecological perspective to cognitive limits: Modeling environment-mind interactions with ACT-R	JUDGMENT AND DECISION MAKING	Contrary to the common belief that more information is always better, Gigerenzer et al. (1999) showed that simple decision strategies which rely on little information can be quite successful. The success of simple strategies depends both on bets about the structure of the environment and on the core capacities of the human mind, such as recognition memory (Gigerenzer, 2004). However, the interplay between the environment and the mind's core capacities has rarely been precisely modeled. We illustrate how these environment-mind interactions could be formally modeled within the cognitive architecture ACT-R (J.R. Anderson et al., 2004). ACT-R is an integrated theory of mind that is tuned to the statistical structure of the environment, and it can account for a variety of phenomena such as learning, problem solving, and decision making. Here, we focus on studying decision strategies and show how the success of theses strategies in particular environments depends on characteristics of core cognitive capacities, such as recognition and short term memory.
892	symbolic	2015	Jager, LA; Engelmann, F; Vasishth, S	Retrieval interference in reflexive processing: experimental evidence from Mandarin, and computational modeling	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	We conducted two eye-tracking experiments investigating the processing of the Mandarin reflexive ziji in order to tease apart structurally constrained accounts from standard cue-based accounts of memory retrieval. In both experiments, we tested whether structurally inaccessible distractors that fulfill the animacy requirement of ziji influence processing times at the reflexive. In Experiment 1, we manipulated animacy of the antecedent and a structurally inaccessible distractor intervening between the antecedent and the reflexive. In conditions where the accessible antecedent mismatched the animacy cue, we found inhibitory interference whereas in antecedent-match conditions, no effect of the distractor was observed. In Experiment 2, we tested only antecedent-match configurations and manipulated locality of the reflexive-antecedent binding (Mandarin allows non-local binding). Participants were asked to hold three distractors (animate vs. inanimate nouns) in memory while reading the target sentence. We found slower reading times when animate distractors were held in memory (inhibitory interference). Moreover, we replicated the locality effect reported in previous studies. These results are incompatible with structure-based accounts. However, the cue-based ACT-R model of Lewis and Vasishth (2005) cannot explain the observed pattern either. We therefore extend the original ACT-R model and show how this model not only explains the data presented in this article, but is also able to account for previously unexplained patterns in the literature on reflexive processing.
893	symbolic	2015	Madl, T; Chen, K; Montaldi, D; Trappl, R	Computational cognitive models of spatial memory in navigation space: A review	NEURAL NETWORKS	Spatial memory refers to the part of the memory system that encodes, stores, recognizes and recalls spatial information about the environment and the agent's orientation within it. Such information is required to be able to navigate to goal locations, and is vitally important for any embodied agent, or model thereof, for reaching goals in a spatially extended environment. In this paper, a number of computationally implemented cognitive models of spatial memory are reviewed and compared. Three categories of models are considered: symbolic models, neural network models, and models that are part of a systems-level cognitive architecture. Representative models from each category are described and compared in a number of dimensions along which simulation models can differ (level of modeling, types of representation, structural accuracy, generality and abstraction, environment complexity), including their possible mapping to the underlying neural substrate. Neural mappings are rarely explicated in the context of behaviorally validated models, but they could be useful to cognitive modeling research by providing a new approach for investigating a model's plausibility. Finally, suggested experimental neuroscience methods are described for verifying the biological plausibility of computational cognitive models of spatial memory, and open questions for the field of spatial memory modeling are outlined. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
894	symbolic	2011	Gonzalez, C; Best, B; Healy, AF; Kole, JA; Bourne, LE	A cognitive modeling account of simultaneous learning and fatigue effects	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Current understanding of sources of fatigue and of how fatigue affects performance in prolonged cognitive tasks is limited. We have observed that participants improve in response time but decrease in accuracy after extended repetitive work in a data entry task. We attributed the increase in errors to accumulating fatigue and the reduction in response time to learning. The concurrent effects of fatigue and learning seem intuitively reasonable but have not been explained computationally. This paper presents a cognitive computational model of these effects. The model, developed using the ACT-R cognitive architecture (Anderson et al., 2004; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998), accounts for learning and fatigue effects through a time-dependent modification of architectural parameters. The model is tested against human data from two independent experiments. Best fit to human accuracy and total response time was found from a modulation of both cognitive and arousal processes. Implications for training and skill acquisition research are discussed. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
895	symbolic	2010	van Maanen, L; van Rijn, H	The Locus of the Gratton Effect in Picture-Word Interference	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Between-trial effects in Stroop-like interference tasks are linked to differences in the amount of cognitive control. Trials following an incongruent trial show less interference, an effect suggested to result from the increased control caused by the incongruent previous trial (known as the Gratton effect). In this study, we show that cognitive control not only results in a different amount of interference but also in a different locus of the interference. That is, the stage of the task that shows the most interference changes as a function of the preceding trial. Using computational cognitive modeling, we explain these effects by a difference in the amount of processing of the irrelevant dimension of the stimulus.
896	symbolic	2004	Langley, P; Cummings, K; Shapiro, D	Hierarchical Skills and Cognitive Architectures	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	In this paper, we examine approaches to representing and utilizing hierarchical skills within the context of a cognitive architecture. We review responses to this issue by three established frameworks - ACT-R, Soar, and PRODIGY - then present an alternative we have developed within ICARUS, another candidate architecture. Unlike most earlier systems, ICARUS lets skills refer directly to their subskills and communicate within a single recognize-act cycle. This assumption has implications for the number of cycles required to complete complex tasks. We illustrate our approach with the domain of multi-column subtraction, then discuss related methods and directions for future work in this area.
897	symbolic	2013	Borst, JP; Buwalda, TA; van Rijn, H; Taatgen, NA	Avoiding the problem state bottleneck by strategic use of the environment	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	We investigated whether environmental support can be used to circumvent the problem state bottleneck in human multitasking. Previously, it was shown that people can only maintain a single chunk of information in their problem state resource, the central part of working memory. Consequently, when the problem state resource was required by multiple tasks concurrently, performance decreased. This phenomenon was termed the problem state bottleneck. To investigate whether the environment can be used to circumvent this bottleneck, we conducted an experiment with two main conditions. In the No-Support condition we replicated an earlier experiment that indicated the existence of the problem state bottleneck. In the Support condition we presented external cues, reducing the load on the problem state resource. To support the results of the experiment we present a computational cognitive model. The experiment and model indicated that the problem state bottleneck can be avoided by using external cues. However, subjects only used external cues when this led to faster behavior. These results were interpreted in the light of the Soft Constraints Hypothesis, which states that humans always follow the fastest strategy possible, as opposed to the most accurate strategy. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
898	symbolic	2011	Bi, LZ; Tsimhoni, O; Liu, YL	Using the Support Vector Regression Approach to Model Human Performance	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART A-SYSTEMS AND HUMANS	Empirical data modeling can be used to model human performance and explore the relationships between diverse sets of variables. A major challenge of empirical data modeling is how to generalize or extrapolate the findings with a limited amount of observed data to a broader context. In this paper, we introduce an approach from machine learning, known as support vector regression (SVR), which can help address this challenge. To demonstrate the method and the value of modeling human performance with SVR, we apply SVR to a real-world human factors problem of night vision system design for passenger vehicles by modeling the probability of pedestrian detection as a function of image metrics. The results indicate that the SVR-based model of pedestrian detection shows good performance. Some suggestions on modeling human performance by using SVR are discussed.
899	symbolic	2005	Haberlandt, K; Lawrence, H; Krohn, T; Bower, K; Thomas, JG	Pauses and durations exhibit a serial position effect	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	This article reports evidence of two kinds of serial position effects in immediate serial recall: One involves interresponse pauses, and the other response durations. In forward and backward recall, responding was faster at initial and final positions than at center positions, exhibiting a bow-shaped function relative to serial position. These data were obtained in a spoken recall study in which ungrouped lists of four to six words and postcuing of recall direction were used. The pause pattern is consistent with several models of serial memory, including a distinctiveness model (Brown, Neath, & Chater, 2002) and a version of the ACT-R model augmented with a spontaneous grouping strategy (Maybery, Parmentier, & Jones, 2002). The duration pattern suggests that response articulation depends on the processing context, rather than being modular.
900	symbolic	1999	Altmann, EM; Trafton, JG	Memory for goals: An architectural perspective	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	The notion that memory for goals is organized as a stack is central in cognitive theory in that stacks are core constructs leading cognitive architectures. However, the stack over-predicts the strength of goal memory and the precision of goal selection order. while under-predicting the maintenance cost of both. A better way to study memory for gods is to treat them like any other kind of memory element. This approach makes accurate and well-constrained predictions and reveals the nature of goal encoding and retrieval processes. The approach is demonstrated in an ACT-R model of human performance on a canonical goal-based task, the Tower of Hanoi. The model and other considerations suggest that cognitive architectures should enforce a two-element limit on the depth of the stack to deter its use for storing task goals while preserving its use for attention and learning.
901	symbolic	2001	Botvinick, MM; Braver, TS; Barch, DM; Carter, CS; Cohen, JD	Conflict monitoring and cognitive control	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A neglected question regarding cognitive control is how control processes might detect situations calling for their involvement. The authors propose here that the demand for control may be evaluated in part by monitoring for conflicts in information processing. This hypothesis is supported by data concerning the anterior cingulate cortex, a brain area involved in cognitive control, which also appears to respond to the occurrence of conflict. The present article reports two computational modeling studies, serving to articulate the conflict monitoring hypothesis and examine its implications. The first study tests the sufficiency of the hypothesis to account for brain activation data, applying a measure of conflict to existing models of tasks shown to engage the anterior cingulate. The second study implements a feedback loop connecting conflict monitoring to cognitive control, using this to simulate a number of important behavioral phenomena.
902	symbolic	1994	PASCUALMARQUI, RD; MICHEL, CM; LEHMANN, D	LOW-RESOLUTION ELECTROMAGNETIC TOMOGRAPHY - A NEW METHOD FOR LOCALIZING ELECTRICAL-ACTIVITY IN THE BRAIN	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	This paper presents a new method for localizing the electric activity in the brain based on multichannel surface EEG recordings. In contrast to the models presented up to now the new method does not assume a limited number of dipolar point sources nor a distribution on a given known surface, but directly computes a current distribution throughout the full brain volume. In order to find a unique solution for the 3-dimensional distribution among the infinite set of different possible solutions, the method assumes that neighboring neurons are simultaneously and synchronously activated. This basic assumption rests on evidence from single cell recordings in the brain that demonstrates strong synchronization of adjacent neurons. In view of this physiological consideration the computational task is to select the smoothest of all possible 3-dimensional current distributions, a task that is a common procedure in generalized signal processing. The result is a true 3-dimensional tomography with the characteristic that localization is preserved with a certain amount of dispersion, i.e., it has a relatively low spatial resolution. The new method, which we call Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) is illustrated with two different sets of evoked potential data, the first showing the tomography of the P100 component to checkerboard stimulation of the left, right, upper and lower hemiretina, and the second showing the results for the auditory N100 component and the two cognitive components CNV and P300. A direct comparison of the tomography results with those obtained from fitting one and two dipoles illustrates that the new method provides physiologically meaningful results while dipolar solutions fail in many situations. In the case of the cognitive components, the method offers new hypotheses on the location of higher cognitive functions in the brain.
903	symbolic	2000	Stanovich, KE; West, RF	Individual differences in reasoning: Implications for the rationality debate?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Much research in the last two decades has demonstrated that human responses deviate from the performance deemed normative according to various models of decision making and rational judgment (e.g., the basic axioms of utility theory). This gap between the normative and the descriptive can be interpreted as indicating systematic irrationalities in human cognition. However, four alternative interpretations preserve the assumption that human behavior and cognition is largely, rational. These posit that the gap is due to (1) performance errors, (2) computational limitations, (3) the wrong norm being applied by the experimenter, and (4) a different construal of the task by the subject. In the debates about the liability of these alternative explanations, attention has been focused too narrowly, on the modal response. In a series of experiments involving most of the classic tasks in the heuristics and biases literature, we have examined the implications of individual differences in performance for each of the four explanations of the normative/descriptive gap. Performance errors are a minor factor in the gap; computational limitations underlie non-normative responding on several tasks, particularly those that involve some type of cognitive decontextualization. Unexpected patterns of covariance can suggest when the wrong norm is being applied to a task or when an alternative construal of the task should be considered appropriate.
904	symbolic	1996	Gigerenzer, G; Goldstein, DG	Reasoning the fast and frugal way: Models of bounded rationality	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Humans and animals make inferences about the world under limited time and knowledge. In contrast, many models of rational inference treat the mind as a Laplacean Demon, equipped with unlimited time, knowledge, and computational might. Following H. Simon's notion of satisficing, the authors have proposed a family of algorithms based on a simple psychological mechanism: one-reason decision making. These fast and frugal algorithms violate fundamental tenets of classical rationality: They neither look up nor integrate all information. By computer simulation, the authors held a competition between the satisficing ''Take The Best'' algorithm and various ''rational'' inference procedures(e.g., multiple regression). The Take The Best algorithm matched or outperformed all competitors in inferential speed and accuracy. This result is an existence proof that cognitive mechanisms capable of successful performance in the real world do not need to satisfy the classical norms of rational inference.
905	symbolic	1999	Kawato, M	Internal models for motor control and trajectory planning	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	A number of internal model concepts are now widespread in neuroscience and cognitive science. These concepts are supported by behavioral, neurophysiological, and imaging data; furthermore, these models have had their structures and functions revealed by such data. In particular, a specific theory on inverse dynamics model learning is directly supported by unit recordings from cerebellar Purkinje cells. Multiple paired forward inverse models describing how diverse objects and environments can be controlled and learned separately have recently been proposed. The 'minimum variance model' is another major recent advance in the computational theory of motor control. This model integrates two furiously disputed approaches on trajectory planning, strongly suggesting that both kinematic and dynamic internal models are utilized in movement planning and control.
906	symbolic	2006	Happe, F; Frith, U	The weak coherence account: Detail-focused cognitive style in autism spectrum disorders	JOURNAL OF AUTISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDERS	"Weak central coherence" refers to the detail-focused processing style proposed to characterise autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The original suggestion of a core deficit in central processing resulting in failure to extract global form/meaning, has been challenged in three ways. First, it may represent an outcome of superiority in local processing. Second, it may be a processing bias, rather than deficit. Third, weak coherence may occur alongside, rather than explain, deficits in social cognition. A review of over 50 empirical studies of coherence suggests robust findings of local bias in ASD, with mixed findings regarding weak global processing. Local bias appears not to be a mere side-effect of executive dysfunction, and may be independent of theory of mind deficits. Possible computational and neural models are discussed.
907	symbolic	1997	Meyer, DE; Kieras, DE	A computational theory of executive cognitive processes and multiple-task performance .1. Basic mechanisms	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A new theoretical framework, executive-process interactive control (EPIC),is introduced for characterizing human performance of concurrent perceptual-motor and cognitive tasks. On the basis of EPIC, computational models may be formulated to simulate multiple-task performance under a variety of circumstances. These models account well for reaction-time data from representative situations such as the psychological refractory-period procedure. EPIC's goodness of fit supports several key conclusions: (a) At a cognitive level, people can apply distinct sets of production rules simultaneously for executing the procedures of multiple tasks; (b) people's capacity to process information at ''peripheral'' perceptual-motor levels is limited; (c) to cope with such Limits and to satisfy task priorities, flexible scheduling strategies are used; and (d) these strategies are mediated by executive cognitive processes that coordinate concurrent tasks adaptively.
908	symbolic	1992	GALLISTEL, CR; GELMAN, R	PREVERBAL AND VERBAL COUNTING AND COMPUTATION	COGNITION	We describe the preverbal system of counting and arithmetic reasoning revealed by experiments on numerical representations in animals. In this system, numerosities are represented by magnitudes, which are rapidly but inaccurately generated by the Meck and Church (1983) preverbal counting mechanism. We suggest the following. (1) The preverbal counting mechanism is the source of the implicit principles that guide the acquisition of verbal counting. (2) The preverbal system of arithmetic computation provides the framework for the assimilation of the verbal system. (3) Learning to count involves, in part, learning a mapping from the preverbal numerical magnitudes to the verbal and written number symbols and the inverse mappings from these symbols to the preverbal magnitudes. (4) Subitizing is the use of the preverbal counting process and the mapping from the resulting magnitudes to number words in order to generate rapidly the number words for small numerosities. (5) The retrieval of the number facts, which plays a central role in verbal computation, is mediated via the inverse mappings from verbal and written numbers to the preverbal magnitudes and the use of these magnitudes to find the appropriate cells in tabular arrangements of the answers. (6) This model of the fact retrieval process accounts for the salient features of the reaction time differences and error patterns revealed by experiments on mental arithmetic. (7) The application of verbal and written computational algorithms goes on in parallel with, and is to some extent guided by, preverbal computations, both in the child and in the adult.
909	symbolic	2003	Nieuwenhuis, S; Yeung, N; van den Wildenberg, W; Ridderinkhof, KR	Electrophysiological correlates of anterior cingulate function in a go/no-go task: Effects of response conflict and trial type frequency	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Neuroimaging and computational modeling studies have led to the suggestion that response conflict monitoring by the anterior cingulate cortex plays a key role in cognitive control. For example, response conflict is high when a response must be with held (no-go) in contexts in which there is a prepotent tendency to make an overt (go) response. An event-related brain potential (ERP) component, the N2, is more pronounced on no-go than on go trials and was previously thought to reflect the need to inhibit the go response. However, the N2 may instead reflect the high degree of response conflict on no-go trials. If so, an N2 should also be apparent when subjects make a go response in conditions in which no-go events are more common. To test this hypothesis, we collected high-density ERP data from subjects performing a go/no-go task, in which the relative frequency of go versus no-go stimuli was varied. Consistent with our hypothesis, an N2 was apparent on both go and no-go trials and showed the properties expected of an ERP measure of conflict detection on correct trials: (1) It was enhanced for low-frequency stimuli, irrespective of whether these stimuli were associated with generating or suppressing a response, and (2) it was localized to the anterior cingulate cortex. This suggests that previous conceptions of the no-go N2 as indexing response inhibition may be in need of revision. Instead, the results are consistent with the view that the N2 in go/no-go tasks reflects conflict arising from competition between the execution and the inhibition of a single response.
910	symbolic	2011	Shackman, AJ; Salomons, TV; Slagter, HA; Fox, AS; Winter, JJ; Davidson, RJ	The integration of negative affect, pain and cognitive control in the cingulate cortex	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	It has been argued that emotion, pain and cognitive control are functionally segregated in distinct subdivisions of the cingulate cortex. However, recent observations encourage a fundamentally different view. Imaging studies demonstrate that negative affect, pain and cognitive control activate an overlapping region of the dorsal cingulate-the anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC). Anatomical studies reveal that the aMCC constitutes a hub where information about reinforcers can be linked to motor centres responsible for expressing affect and executing goal-directed behaviour. Computational modelling and other kinds of evidence suggest that this intimacy reflects control processes that are common to all three domains. These observations compel a reconsideration of the dorsal cingulate's contribution to negative affect and pain.
911	symbolic	2005	Critchley, HD	Neural mechanisms of autonomic, affective, and cognitive integration	JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE NEUROLOGY	Influential theoretical models propose a central role for afferent information from the body in the expression of emotional feeling states. Feedback representations of changing states of bodily arousal influence learning and facilitate concurrent and prospective decision-making. Functional neuroimaging studies have increased understanding of brain mechanisms that generate changes in autonomic arousal during behavior and those which respond to internal feedback signals to influence subjective feeling states. In particular, anterior cingulate cortex is implicated in generating autonomic changes, while insula and orbitofrontal cortices may be specialized in mapping visceral responses. Independently, ventromedial prefrontal cortex is recognized to support processes of internal (self-) reference that predominate in states of rest and disengagement and which putatively serve as a benchmark for dynamic interactions with the environment. Lesion data further highlight the integrated role of these cortical regions in autonomic and motivational control. In computational models of control, forward (efference copies) and inverse models are proposed to enable prediction and correction of action and, by extension, the interpretation of the behavior of others. It is hypothesized that the neural substrate for these processes during motivational and affective behavior lies within the interactions of anterior cingulate, insula, and orbitofrontal cortices. Generation of visceral autonomic correlates of control reinforce experiential engagement in simulatory models and underpin concepts such as somatic markers to bridge the dualistic divide.
912	symbolic	1997	Chi, MTH	Quantifying qualitative analyses of verbal data: A practical guide	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	This article provides one example of a method of analyzing qualitative data in an objective and quantifiable way. Although the application of the method is illustrated in the context of verbal data such as explanations, interviews, problem-solving protocols, and retrospective reports, in principle, the mechanics of the method can be adapted for coding other types of qualitative data, such as gestures and videotapes. The mechanics of the method are outlined in 8 concrete steps. Although verbal analyses can be used for many purposes, the main goal of the analyses discussed here is to formulate an understanding of the representation of the knowledge used in cognitive performances and how that representation changes with learning. This can be contrasted with another method of analyzing verbal protocols, the goal of which is to validate the cognitive processes of human performance, often as embodied in a computational model.
913	symbolic	2001	Rubinstein, JS; Meyer, DE; Evans, JE	Executive control of cognitive processes in task switching	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	In 4 experiments, participants alternated between different tasks or performed the same task repeatedly. The tasks for 2 of the experiments required responding to geometric objects in terms of alternative classification rules, and the tasks for the other 2 experiments required solving arithmetic problems in terms of alternative numerical operations. Performance was measured as a function of whether the tasks were familiar or unfamiliar, the rules were simple or complex, and visual cues were present or absent about which tasks should be performed. Task alternation yielded switching-time costs that increased with rule complexity but decreased with task cuing. These factor effects were additive, supporting a model of executive control that has goal-shifting and rule-activation stages for task switching. It appears that rule activation takes more time for switching from familiar to unfamiliar tasks than for switching in the opposite direction.
914	symbolic	2012	Miyake, A; Friedman, NP	The Nature and Organization of Individual Differences in Executive Functions: Four General Conclusions	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Executive functions (EFs)-a set of general-purpose control processes that regulate one's thoughts and behaviors-have become a popular research topic lately and have been studied in many subdisciplines of psychological science. This article summarizes the EF research that our group has conducted to understand the nature of individual differences in EFs and their cognitive and biological underpinnings. In the context of a new theoretical framework that we have been developing (the unity/diversity framework), we describe four general conclusions that have emerged. Specifically, we argue that individual differences in EFs, as measured with simple laboratory tasks, (a) show both unity and diversity (different EFs are correlated yet separable), (b) reflect substantial genetic contributions, (c) are related to various clinically and societally important phenomena, and (d) show some developmental stability.
915	symbolic	2013	Borji, A; Itti, L	State-of-the-Art in Visual Attention Modeling	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE	Modeling visual attention-particularly stimulus-driven, saliency-based attention-has been a very active research area over the past 25 years. Many different models of attention are now available which, aside from lending theoretical contributions to other fields, have demonstrated successful applications in computer vision, mobile robotics, and cognitive systems. Here we review, from a computational perspective, the basic concepts of attention implemented in these models. We present a taxonomy of nearly 65 models, which provides a critical comparison of approaches, their capabilities, and shortcomings. In particular, 13 criteria derived from behavioral and computational studies are formulated for qualitative comparison of attention models. Furthermore, we address several challenging issues with models, including biological plausibility of the computations, correlation with eye movement datasets, bottom-up and top-down dissociation, and constructing meaningful performance measures. Finally, we highlight current research trends in attention modeling and provide insights for future.
916	symbolic	1995	ANDERSON, MC; SPELLMAN, BA	ON THE STATUS OF INHIBITORY MECHANISMS IN COGNITION - MEMORY RETRIEVAL AS A MODEL CASE	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Theories of cognition frequently assume the existence of inhibitory mechanisms that deactivate mental representations. Justifying this assumption is difficult because cognitive effects thought to reflect inhibition can often be explained without recourse to inhibitory processes. This article addresses the uncertain status of cognitive inhibitory mechanisms, focusing on their function in memory retrieval. On the basis of a novel form of forgetting reported herein, it is shown that classical associative theories of interference are insufficient as accounts of forgetting and that inhibitory processes must be at work. It is argued that inhibitory processes are used to resolve computational problems of selection common to memory retrieval and selective attention and that retrieval is best regarded as conceptually focused selective attention.
917	symbolic	2006	Cools, R	Dopaminergic modulation of cognitive function-implications for L-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	It is well recognised that patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit cognitive deficits, even in the earliest disease stages. Whereas, L-DOPA therapy in early Parkinson's disease is accepted to improve the motor symptoms, the effects on cognitive performance are more complex: both positive and negative effects have been observed. The purpose of the present article is to review the effects of L-DOPA medication in Parkinson's disease on cognitive functions in the broad domains of cognitive flexibility and working memory. The review places the effects in Parkinson's disease within a framework of evidence from studies with healthy human volunteers, rodents and non-human primates as well as computational modeling work. It is suggested that beneficial or detrimental effects of L-DOPA are observed depending on task demands and basal dopamine levels in distinct parts of the striatum. The study of the beneficial and detrimental cognitive effects of L-DOPA in Parkinson's disease has substantial implications for the understanding and treatment development of cognitive abnormalities in Parkinson's disease as well as normal health. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
918	symbolic	2003	Simons, JS; Spiers, HJ	Prefrontal and medial temporal lobe interactions in long-term memory	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	Cognitive neuroscience has made considerable progress in understanding the involvement of the medial temporal and frontal lobes in long-term memory. Whereas the medial temporal lobe has traditionally been associated with the encoding, storage and retrieval of long-term memories, the prefrontal cortex has been linked with cognitive control processes such as selection, engagement, monitoring and inhibition. However, there has been little attempt to understand how these regions might interact during encoding and retrieval, and little consideration of the anatomical connections between them. Recent advances in functional neuroimaging, neurophysiology, crossed-lesion neuropsychology and computational modelling highlight the importance of understanding how the medial temporal and frontal lobes interact to allow successful remembering, and provide an opportunity to explore these interactions.
919	symbolic	1997	Hummel, JE; Holyoak, KJ	Distributed representations of structure: A theory of analogical access and mapping	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	This article describes an integrated theory of analogical access and mapping, instantiated in a computational model called LISA (Learning and Inference with Schemas and Analogies). LISA represents predicates and objects as distributed patterns of activation that are dynamically bound into propositional structures, thereby achieving both the flexibility of a connectionist system and the structure sensitivity of a symbolic system. The model treats access and mapping as types of guided pattern classification, differing only in that mapping is augmented by a capacity to learn new correspondences. The resulting model simulates a wide range of empirical findings concerning human analogical access and mapping. LISA also has a number of inherent limitations, including capacity limits, that arise in human reasoning and suggests a specific computational account of these limitations. Extensions of this approach also account for analogical inference and schema induction.
920	symbolic	2007	Botvinick, MM	Conflict monitoring and decision making: Reconciling two perspectives on anterior cingulate function	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	According to one influential account, the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) serves to monitor for conflicts in information processing. According to another influential account, the ACC monitors action outcomes and guides decision making. Both of these perspectives are supported by an abundance of data, making it untenable to reject one view in favor of the other. Instead, the apparent challenge is to discover how the two perspectives might fit together within a larger account. In the present article, we consider the prospects for such a reconciliation. Juxtaposing the conflict-monitoring and decision-making accounts suggests an extension of the conflict-monitoring theory, by which conflict would act as a teaching signal driving a form of avoidance learning. The effect of this mechanism would be to bias behavioral decision making toward cognitively efficient tasks and strategies. We discuss evidence favoring this proposal and present an initial computational model, which lays the foundation for further development.
921	symbolic	1994	KIRSH, D; MAGLIO, P	ON DISTINGUISHING EPISTEMIC FROM PRAGMATIC ACTION	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present data and argument to show that in Tetris-a real-time, interactive video game-certain cognitive and perceptual problems are more quickly, easily, and reliably solved by performing actions in the world than by performing computational actions in the head alone.  We have found that some of the translations and rotations made by players of this video game are best understood as actions that use the world to improve cognition.  These actions are not used to implement a plan, or to implement a reaction; they are used to change the world in order to simplify the problem-solving task.  Thus, we distinguish pragmatic actions-actions performed to bring one physically closer to a goal-from epistemic actions-actions performed to uncover information that is hidden or hard to compute mentally. To illustrate the need for epistemic actions, we first develop a standard information-processing model of Tetris cognition and show that it cannot explain performance data from human players of the game-even when we relax the assumption of fully sequential processing.  Standard models disregard many actions taken by players because they appear unmotivated or superfluous.  However, we show that such actions are actually far from superfluous; they play a valuable role in improving human performance.  We argue that traditional accounts are limited because they regard action as having a single function:  to change the world.  By recognizing a second function of action-an epistemic function-we can explain many of the actions that a traditional model cannot.  Although our argument is supported by numerous examples specifically from Tetris, we outline how the new category of epistemic action can be incorporated into theories of action more generally.
922	symbolic	2001	Logan, GD; Gordon, RD	Executive control of visual attention in dual-task situations	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A theory of executive control is presented that proposes that executive processes control subordinate processes by manipulating their parameters, reconfiguring them to respond in accord with the current task set. It adopts C. Bundesen's (1990) theory of visual attention (TVA) and R. M. Nosofsky and T. J. Palmeri's (1997) exemplar-based random walk (EBRW) as the theory of subordinate processes. It assumes that a task set is a set of TVA and EBRW parameters sufficient to perform a task and that set switching involves changing those parameters. The theory solves 2 computational problems that emerge in dual-task situations: the binding problem and the serial order problem. It can perform dual tasks in series or in parallel but prefers the serial strategy because it is faster and it solves the binding problem naturally. The theory accounts for concurrence cost, set-switching cost, crosstalk between tasks, and the modulation of crosstalk by task set.
923	symbolic	2009	Fletcher, PC; Frith, CD	Perceiving is believing: a Bayesian approach to explaining the positive symptoms of schizophrenia	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	Advances in cognitive neuroscience offer us new ways to understand the symptoms of mental illness by uniting basic neurochemical and neurophysiological observations with the conscious experiences that characterize these symptoms. Cognitive theories about the positive symptoms of schizophrenia - hallucinations and delusions have tended to treat perception and belief formation as distinct processes. However, recent advances in computational neuroscience have led us to consider the unusual perceptual experiences of patients and their sometimes bizarre beliefs as part of the same core abnormality - a disturbance in error-dependent updating of inferences and beliefs about the world. We suggest that it is possible to understand these symptoms in terms of a disturbed hierarchical Bayesian framework, without recourse to separate considerations of experience and belief.
924	symbolic	1998	Halford, GS; Wilson, WH; Phillips, S	Processing capacity defined by relational complexity: Implications for comparative, developmental, and cognitive psychology	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Working memory limits are best defined in terms of the complexity of the relations that can be processed in parallel. Complexity is defined as the number of related dimensions or sources of variation. A unary relation has one argument and one source of variation; its argument can be instantiated in only one way at a time. A binary relation has two arguments, two sources of variation, and two instantiations, and so on. Dimensionality is related to the number of chunks, because both attributes on dimensions and chunks are independent units of information of arbitrary size. Studies of working memory limits suggest that there is a soft limit corresponding to the parallel processing of one quaternary relation. More complex concepts are processed by "segmentation" or "conceptual chunking." In segmentation, tasks are broken into components that do not exceed processing capacity and can be processed serially. In conceptual chunking, representations are "collapsed" to reduce their dimensionality and hence their processing load, but at the cost of making some relational information inaccessible. Neural net models of relational representations show that relations with more arguments have a higher computational cost that coincides with experimental findings on higher processing loads in humans. Relational complexity is related to processing load in reasoning and sentence comprehension and can distinguish between the capacities of higher species. The complexity of relations processed by children increases with ape. Implications for neural net models and theories of cognition and cognitive development are discussed.
925	symbolic	1997	Ballard, DH; Hayhoe, MM; Pook, PK; Rao, RPN	Deictic codes for the embodiment of cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	To describe phenomena that occur at different time scales, computational models of the brain must incorporate different levels of abstraction. At time scales of approximately 1/3 of a second, orienting movements of the body play a crucial role in cognition and form a useful computational level - more abstract than that used to capture natural phenomena but less abstract than what is traditionally used to study high-level cognitive processes such as reasoning. At this "embodiment level," the constraints of the physical system determine the nature of cognitive operations. The key synergy is that at time scales of about 1/3 of a second, the natural sequentiality of body movements can be matched to the natural computational economies of sequential decision systems through a system of implicit reference called deictic in which pointing movements are used to bind objects in the world to cognitive programs. This target article focuses on how deictic bindings make it possible to perform natural tasks. Deictic computation provides a mechanism for representing the essential features that link external sensory data with internal cognitive programs and motor actions. One of the central features of cognition, working memory, can be related to moment-by-moment dispositions of body features such as eye movements and hand movements.
926	symbolic	2006	O'Reilly, RC; Frank, MJ	Making working memory work: A computational model of learning in the prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia	NEURAL COMPUTATION	The prefrontal cortex has long been thought to subserve both working memory (the holding of information online for processing) and executive functions (deciding how to manipulate working memory and perform processing). Although many computational models of working memory have been developed, the mechanistic basis of executive function remains elusive, often amounting to a homunculus. This article presents an attempt to deconstruct this homunculus through powerful learning mechanisms that allow a computational model of the prefrontal cortex to control both itself and other brain areas in a strategic, task-appropriate manner. These learning mechanisms are based on subcortical structures in the midbrain, basal ganglia, and amygdala, which together form an actor-critic architecture. The critic system learns which prefrontal representations are task relevant and trains the actor, which in turn provides a dynamic gating mechanism for controlling working memory updating. Computationally, the learning mechanism is designed to simultaneously solve the temporal and structural credit assignment problems. The model's performance compares favorably with standard backpropagation-based temporal learning mechanisms on the challenging 1-2-AX working memory task and other benchmark working memory tasks.
927	symbolic	2009	Gigerenzer, G; Brighton, H	Homo Heuristicus: Why Biased Minds Make Better Inferences	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Heuristics are efficient cognitive processes that ignore information. In contrast to the widely held view that less processing reduces accuracy, the study of heuristics shows that less information, computation, and time can in fact improve accuracy. We review the major progress made so far: (a) the discovery of less-is-more effects; (b) the study of the ecological rationality of heuristics, which examines in which environments a given strategy succeeds or fails, and why; (c) an advancement from vague labels to computational models of heuristics; (d) the development of a systematic theory of heuristics that identifies their building blocks and the evolved capacities they exploit, and views the cognitive system as relying on an "adaptive toolbox;'' and (e) the development of an empirical methodology that accounts for individual differences, conducts competitive tests, and has provided evidence for people's adaptive use of heuristics. Homo heuristicus has a biased mind and ignores part of the available information, yet a biased mind can handle uncertainty more efficiently and robustly than an unbiased mind relying on more resource-intensive and general-purpose processing strategies.
928	symbolic	1997	Quartz, SR; Sejnowski, TJ	The neural basis of cognitive development: A constructivist manifesto	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	How do minds emerge from developing brains? According to "neural constructivism," the representational features of cortex are built from the dynamic interaction between neural growth mechanisms and environmentally derived neural activity. Contrary to popular selectionist models that emphasize regressive mechanisms, the neurobiological evidence suggests that this growth is a progressive increase in the representational properties of cortex. The interaction between the environment and neural growth results in a flexible type of learning: "constructive learning" minimizes the need for prespecification in accordance with recent neurobiological evidence that the developing cerebral cortex is largely free of domain-specific structure. Instead, the representational properties of cortex are built by the nature of the problem domain confronting it. This uniquely powerful and general learning strategy undermines the central assumption of classical learnability theory, that the learning properties of a system can be deduced from a fixed computational architecture. Neural constructivism suggests that the evolutionary emergence of neocortex in mammals is a progression toward more flexible representational structures, in contrast to the popular view of cortical evolution as an increase in innate, specialized circuits. Human cortical postnatal development is also more extensive and protracted than generally supposed, suggesting that cortex has evolved so as to maximize the capacity of environmental structure to shape its structure and function through constructive learning.
929	symbolic	2001	Ullman, MT	A neurocognitive perspective on language: The declarative/procedural model	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	What are the psychological, computational and neural underpinnings of language? Are these neurocognitive correlates dedicated to language? Do different parts of language depend on distinct neuracognitive systems? Here I address these and other issues that are crucial for our understanding of two fundamental language capacities: the memorization of words in the mental lexicon, and the rule-governed combination of words by the mental grammar. According to the declarative/procedural model, the mental lexicon depends on declarative memory and is rooted in the temporal lobe, whereas the mental grammar involves procedural memory and is rooted in the frontal cortex and basal ganglia. I argue that the declarative/procedural model provides a new framework for the study of lexicon and grammar.
930	symbolic	2001	Li, SC; Lindenberger, U; Sikstrom, S	Aging cognition: from neuromodulation to representation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Basic cognitive functions, such as the abilities to activate, represent, maintain, focus and process information, decline with age. A paradigm shift towards cross-level conceptions is needed in order to obtain an integrative understanding of cognitive aging phenomena that cuts across neural, information-processing, and behavioral levels. We review empirical data at these different levels, and computational theories proposed to enable their integration. A theoretical link is highlighted, relating deficient neuromodulation with noisy information processing, which might result in less distinctive cortical representations. These less distinctive representations might be implicated in working memory and attentional functions that underlie the behavioral manifestations of cognitive aging deficits.
931	symbolic	2000	Doya, K	Complementary roles of basal ganglia and cerebellum in learning and motor control	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	The classical notion that the basal ganglia and the cerebellum are dedicated to motor control has been challenged by the accumulation of evidence revealing their involvement in nonmotor, cognitive functions. From a computational viewpoint, it has been suggested that the cerebellum, the basal ganglia, and the cerebral cortex are specialized for different types of learning: namely, supervised learning, reinforcement learning and unsupervised learning, respectively. This idea of learning-oriented specialization is helpful in understanding the complementary roles of the basal ganglia and the cerebellum in motor control and cognitive functions.
932	symbolic	2000	Kuipers, B	The Spatial Semantic Hierarchy	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The Spatial Semantic Hierarchy is a model of knowledge of large-scale space consisting of multiple interacting representations, both qualitative and quantitative. The SSH is inspired by the properties of the human cognitive map, and is intended to serve both as a model of the human cognitive map and as a method for robot exploration and map-building. The multiple levels of the SSH express states of partial knowledge, and thus enable the human or robotic agent to deal robustly with uncertainty during both learning and problem-solving. The control level represents useful patterns of sensorimotor interaction with the world in the form of trajectory-following and hill-climbing control laws leading to locally distinctive states. Local geometric maps in local frames of reference can be constructed at the control level to serve as observers Tor control laws in particular neighborhoods. The causal level abstracts continuous behavior among distinctive states into a discrete model consisting of states linked by actions. The topological level introduces the external ontology of places, paths and regions by abduction to explain the observed pattern of states and actions at the causal level. Quantitative knowledge at the control, causal and topological levels supports a "patchwork map" of local geometric frames of reference linked by causal and topological connections. The patchwork map can be merged into a single global frame of reference at the metrical level when sufficient information and computational resources are available. We describe the assumptions and guarantees behind the generality of the SSH across environments and sensorimotor systems. Evidence is presented from several partial implementations of the SSH on simulated and physical robots. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
933	symbolic	2004	Gopnik, A; Glymour, C; Sobel, DM; Schulz, LE; Kushnir, T; Danks, D	A theory of causal learning in children: Causal maps and Bayes nets	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors outline a cognitive and computational account of causal learning in children. They propose that children use specialized cognitive systems that allow them to recover an accurate "causal map" of the world: an abstract, coherent, learned representation of the causal relations among events. This kind of knowledge can be perspicuously understood in terms of the formalism of directed graphical causal models, or Bayes nets. Children's causal learning and inference may involve computations similar to those for learning causal Bayes nets and for predicting with them. Experimental results suggest that 2- to 4-year-old children construct new causal maps and that their learning is consistent with the Bayes net formalism.
934	symbolic	2006	Frank, MJ	Hold your horses: A dynamic computational role for the subthalamic nucleus in decision making	NEURAL NETWORKS	The basal ganglia (BG) coordinate decision making processes by facilitating adaptive frontal motor commands while suppressing others. In previous work, neural network simulations accounted for response selection deficits associated with BG dopamine depletion in Parkinson's disease. Novel predictions from this model have been subsequently confirmed in Parkinson patients and in healthy participants under pharmacological challenge. Nevertheless, one clear limitation of that model is in its omission of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), a key BG structure that participates in both motor and cognitive processes. The present model incorporates the STN and shows that by modulating when a response is executed, the STN reduces premature responding and therefore has substantial effects on which response is ultimately selected, particularly when there are multiple competing responses. Increased cortical response conflict leads to dynamic adjustments in response thresholds via cortico-subthalamic-pallidal pathways. The model accurately captures the dynamics of activity in various BG areas during response selection. Simulated dopamine depletion results in emergent oscillatory activity in BG structures, which has been linked with Parkinson's tremor. Finally, the model accounts for the beneficial effects of STN lesions on these oscillations, but suggests that this benefit may come at the expense of impaired decision making. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
935	symbolic	1998	Cleeremans, A; Destrebecqz, A; Boyer, M	Implicit learning: news from the front	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Can we learn without awareness? While the current consensus is most likely to be 'no', there is, however, considerable ongoing debate about the role that consciousness plays in cognition and about the nature of consciousness itself. In this article, we review recent advances in the field of implicit learning, based on three perspectives: empirical findings (including neuropsychological evidence), methodological issues, and theoretical positions (including computational models). The overall picture that emerges is complex and reflects a field that is very much in flux: while it seems undeniable that cognition involves some form of unconscious processing, it is as yet unclear how to best separate conscious and unconscious influences on learning, and how to best think about the status of the 'cognitive unconscious'. We suggest that implicit learning is best construed as a complex form of priming taking place in continuously learning neural systems, and that the distributional knowledge so acquired can be causally efficacious in the absence of awareness that this knowledge was acquired or that it is currently influencing processing, that is, in the absence of metaknowledge.
936	symbolic	1997	Meyer, DE; Kieras, DE	A computational theory of executive cognitive processes and multiple-task performance .2. Accounts of psychological refractory-period phenomena	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Further simulations of human multiple-task performance have been conducted with computational models that are based on the executive-process interactive control (EPIC) architecture introduced by D. E. Meyer and D. E. Kieras (1997a). These models account well for patterns of reaction times and psychological refractory-period phenomena (delays of overt responses after short stimulus onset asynchronies) observed in a variety of laboratory paradigms and realistic situations. This supports the claim of the present theoretical framework that multiple-task performance relies on adaptive executive control, which enables substantial amounts of temporal overlap among stimulus identification, response selection, and movement-production processes for concurrent tasks. Such overlap is achieved through optimized task scheduling by flexible executive processes that satisfy prevailing instructions about task priorities and allocate limited-capacity perceptual-motor resources efficiently.
937	symbolic	1992	RADEMACHER, J; GALABURDA, AM; KENNEDY, DN; FILIPEK, PA; CAVINESS, VS	HUMAN CEREBRAL-CORTEX - LOCALIZATION, PARCELLATION, AND MORPHOMETRY WITH MAGNETIC-RESONANCE-IMAGING	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	We describe a system of parcellation of the human brain that is based on the functional anatomy of the cerebral cortex and that is applied to the analysis of magnetic resonance images. This system is designed to support investigations of hemispheric asymmetries and quantitative lesion localization studies in cognitive neuroscience. The system of cortical subdivision is a neural systems oriented model that approximates subdivisions supported by previous architectonic and functional analyses. It is based primarily on boundaries determined by "limiting fissures." It is completed by a set of coronal planes, keyed to visible anatomic landmarks, which "close" the borders of the parcellation subdivisions. The method depends on computational reconstruction of the primary image data in multiple planes so as to allow the observed pattern of limiting fissures in a given brain to be digitized. In this presentation, the method is applied in order to define the surface anatomy of the cerebral hemispheres in a normal subject. Volumetric measurements of individual cortical regions are compared as hemispheric percentiles to areal percentiles derived from the analysis of Jouandet et al. (1989), a conceptually related though methodologically different approach. We specifically address the approach to the study of interhemispheric differences and interindividual variations in cortical anatomy.
938	symbolic	1993	SHASTRI, L; AJJANAGADDE, V	FROM SIMPLE ASSOCIATIONS TO SYSTEMATIC REASONING - A CONNECTIONIST REPRESENTATION OF RULES, VARIABLES AND DYNAMIC BINDINGS USING TEMPORAL SYNCHRONY	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Human agents draw a variety of inferences effortlessly, spontaneously, and with remarkable efficiency - as though these inferences were a reflexive response of their cognitive apparatus. Furthermore, these inferences are drawn with reference to a large body of background knowledge. This remarkable human ability seems paradoxical given the complexity of reasoning reported by researchers in artificial intelligence. It also poses a challenge for cognitive science and computational neuroscience: How can a system of simple and slow neuronlike elements represent a large body of systemic knowledge and perform a range of inferences with such speed? We describe a computational model that takes a step toward addressing the cognitive science challenge and resolving the artificial intelligence paradox. We show how a connectionist network can encode millions of facts and rules involving n-ary predicates and variables and perform a class of inferences in a few hundred milliseconds. Efficient reasoning requires the rapid representation and propagation of dynamic bindings. Our model (which we refer to as SHRUTI) achieves this by representing (1) dynamic bindings as the synchronous firing of appropriate nodes, (2) rules as interconnection patterns that direct the propagation of rhythmic activity, and (3) long-term facts as temporal pattern-matching subnetworks. The model is consistent with recent neurophysiological evidence that synchronous activity occurs in the brain and may play a representational role in neural information processing. The model also makes specific psychologically significant predictions about the nature of reflexive reasoning. It identifies constraints on the form of rules that may participate in such reasoning and relates the capacity of the working memory underlying reflexive reasoning to biological parameters such as the lowest frequency at which nodes can sustain synchronous oscillations and the coarseness of synchronization.
939	symbolic	2010	Anderson, ML	Neural reuse: A fundamental organizational principle of the brain	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	An emerging class of theories concerning the functional structure of the brain takes the reuse of neural circuitry for various cognitive purposes to be a central organizational principle. According to these theories, it is quite common for neural circuits established for one purpose to be exapted (exploited, recycled, redeployed) during evolution or normal development, and be put to different uses, often without losing their original functions. Neural reuse theories thus differ from the usual understanding of the role of neural plasticity (which is, after all, a kind of reuse) in brain organization along the following lines: According to neural reuse, circuits can continue to acquire new uses after an initial or original function is established; the acquisition of new uses need not involve unusual circumstances such as injury or loss of established function; and the acquisition of a new use need not involve (much) local change to circuit structure (e.g., it might involve only the establishment of functional connections to new neural partners). Thus, neural reuse theories offer a distinct perspective on several topics of general interest, Such as: the evolution and development of the brain, including (for instance) the evolutionary-developmental pathway supporting primate tool use and human language; the degree of modularity in brain organization; the degree of localization of cognitive function; and the cortical parcellation problem and the prospects (and proper methods to employ) for function to structure mapping. The idea also has some practical implications in the areas of rehabilitative medicine and machine interface design.
940	symbolic	2001	Thompson, PM; Mega, MS; Woods, RP; Zoumalan, CI; Lindshield, CJ; Blanton, RE; Moussai, J; Holmes, CJ; Cummings, JL; Toga, AW	Cortical change in Alzheimer's disease detected with a disease-specific population-based brain atlas	CEREBRAL CORTEX	We report the first detailed population-based maps of cortical gray matter loss in Alzheimer's disease (AD), revealing prominent features of early structural change. New computational approaches were used to: (i) distinguish variations in gray matter distribution from variations in gyral patterns; (ii) encode these variations in a brain atlas (n = 46); (iii) create detailed maps localizing gray matter differences across groups. High resolution 3D magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) volumes were acquired from 26 subjects with mild to moderate AD (age 75.8 +/- 1.7 years, MMSE score 20.0 +/- 0.9) and 20 normal elderly controls (72.4 +/- 1.3 years) matched for age, sex, handedness and educational level. Image data were aligned into a standardized coordinate space specifically developed for an elderly population. Eighty-four anatomical models per brain, based on parametric surface meshes, were created for all 46 subjects. Structures modeled included: cortical surfaces, all major superficial and deep cortical sulci, callosal and hippocampal surfaces, 14 ventricular regions and 36 gyral boundaries. An elastic warping approach, driven by anatomical features, was then used to measure gyral pattern variations. Measures of gray matter distribution were made in corresponding regions of cortex across all 46 subjects. Statistical variations in cortical patterning, asymmetry, gray matter distribution and average gray matter loss were then encoded locally across the cortex. Maps of group differences were generated. Average maps revealed complex profiles of gray matter loss in disease. Greatest deficits (20-30% loss, P < 0.001-0.0001) were mapped in the temporo-parietal cortices. The sensorimotor and occipital cortices were comparatively spared (0-5% loss, P > 0.05). Gray matter loss was greater in the left hemisphere, with different patterns in the heteromodal and idiotypic cortex. Gyral pattern variability also differed in cortical regions appearing at different embryonic phases. 3D mapping revealed profiles of structural deficits consistent with the cognitive, metabolic and histological changes in early AD. These deficits can therefore be (i) charted in a living population and (ii) compared across individuals and groups, facilitating longitudinal, genetic and interventional studies of dementia.
941	symbolic	1999	Braver, TS; Barch, DM; Cohen, JD	Cognition and control in schizophrenia: A computational model of dopamine and prefrontal function	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Behavioral deficits suffered by patients with schizophrenia in a wide array of cognitive domains can be conceptualized as failures of cognitive control, due to an impaired ability to internally represent, maintain, and update context information. A theory is described that postulates a single neurobiological mechanism for these disturbances, involving dysfunctional interactions between the dopamine neurotransmitter system and the prefrontal cortex. Specifically, it is hypothesized that in schizophrenia, there is increased noise in the activity of the dopamine system, leading to abnormal "gating" of information into prefrontal cortex. The theory is implemented as an explicit connectionist computational model that incorporates the roles of both dopamine and prefrontal cortex in cognitive control. A simulation is presented of behavioral performance in a version of the Continuous Performance Test specifically adapted to measure critical aspects of cognitive control function. Schizophrenia patients exhibit clear behavioral deficits on this task that reflect impairments in both the maintenance and updating of context information. The simulation results suggest that the model can successfully account for these impairments in terms of abnormal dopamine activity. This theory provides a potential point of contact between research on the neurobiological and psychological aspects of schizophrenia, by illustrating how a particular physiological disturbance might lead to precise and quantifiable consequences for behavior. Biol Psychiatry 1999;46:312-328 (C) 1999 Society of Biological Psychiatry.
942	symbolic	2002	Braver, TS; Barch, DA	A theory of cognitive control, aging cognition, and neuromodulation	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	A theory is described which links cognitive changes observed in normal aging to an underlying decline in the function of the dopamine (DA) system projection to prefrontal. cortex (PFC). The theory postulates that this neural mechanism is integral to the representation, maintenance and updating of context information, and as such impacts cognitive control across a wide range of cognitive domains, including working memory, attention, and inhibition. Behavioral and brain imaging data in support of the theory are discussed, which demonstrate selective impairments in context processing among healthy older adults associated with abnormal PFC activation. These findings highlight the utility of a computational approach to cognitive aging. Current directions for further refinement and validation of the model are outlined. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
943	symbolic	2002	Pitt, MA; Myung, IJ; Zhang, SB	Toward a method of selecting among computational models of cognition	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The question of how one should decide among competing explanations of data is at the heart of the scientific enterprise. Computational models of cognition are increasingly being advanced as explanations of behavior. The success of this line of inquiry depends on the development of robust methods to guide the evaluation and selection of these models. This article introduces a method of selecting among mathematical models of cognition known as minimum description length. which provides an intuitive and theoretically well-grounded understanding of why one model should be chosen. A central but elusive concept in model selection, complexity, can also be derived with the method. The adequacy of the method is demonstrated in 3 areas of cognitive modeling: psychophysics, information integration, and categorization.
944	symbolic	2003	Logan, GD; Bundesen, C	Clever homunculus: Is there an endogenous act of control in the explicit task-cuing procedure?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Does the explicit task-cuing procedure require an endogenous act of control? In 5 experiments, cues indicating which task to perform preceded targets by several stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). Two models were developed to account for changes in reaction time (RT) with SOA. Model 1 assumed an endogenous act of task switching for cue alternations but not for cue repetitions. Model 2 assumed no such act. In Experiments 1 and 2, the cue was masked or not masked. Masking interacted underadditively with repetition and alternation, consistent with Model 2 but not Model 1. In Experiments 3 and 4, 2 cues were used for each task. RT was slower for task repetition than for cue repetition and about the same as RT for task alternation, consistent with Model 2 but not Model 1. The results suggest that the explicit task-cuing procedure does not require an endogenous act of control.
945	symbolic	2005	Sergeant, JA	Modeling attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: A critical appraisal of the cognitive-energetic model	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	A number of theoretical models of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have emerged in recent years that may be used as systematic guides for clinical research. The cognitive-energetic model (CEM) proposes that the overall efficiency of information processing is determined by the interplay of three levels: computational mechanisms of attention, state factors, and management/executive function (EF). The CEM encompasses both top-down and bottom-up processes and draws attention to the fact that ADHD causes defects at all three levels. These include cognitive mechanisms, such as response output; energetic mechanisms, such as activation and effort; and management/EF deficits. Increasing evidence suggests that inhibition deficits associated with ADHD may, at least in part, be explained in terms of an energetic dysfunction. The activation and effort energetic pools appear most relevant to ADHD, being directly related to response organization; however, further testing of CEM is critically dependent on the development of direct measures of these energetic pools. The CEM is a comprehensive model of ADHD but is not witbout limitations. In particular, further research is required to define more specifically the relationship between process dysfunction and state dysregulation in ADHD.
946	symbolic	2003	Tombu, M; Jolicoeur, P	A central capacity sharing model of dual-task performance	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The authors present the central capacity sharing (CCS) model and derive equations describing its behaviors to explain results from dual-task situations. The predictions of the CCS model are contrasted with those of the central bottleneck model. The CCS model predicts all of the hallmark effects of the psychological refractory period (PRP) paradigm: -1 slope of the PRP effect at short stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs), underadditivity of precentral Task 2 manipulations, additivity of central or postcentral Task 2 manipulations with SOA, and carry forward to Task 2 of Task 1 precentral or central manipulations at short SOAs. The CCS model also predicts that Task 1 response times increase with decreasing SOA. The model is a viable alternative to the central bottleneck model.
947	symbolic	1995	BRESSLER, SL	LARGE-SCALE CORTICAL NETWORKS AND COGNITION	BRAIN RESEARCH REVIEWS	The well-known parcellation of the mammalian cerebral cortex into a large number of functionally distinct cytoarchitectonic areas presents a problem for understanding the complex cortical integrative functions that underlie cognition. How do cortical areas having unique individual functional properties cooperate to accomplish these complex operations? Do neurons distributed throughout the cerebral cortex act together in large-scale functional assemblages? This review examines the substantial body of evidence supporting the view that complex integrative functions are carried out by large-scale networks of cortical areas. Pathway tracing studies in non-human primates have revealed widely distributed networks of interconnected cortical areas, providing an anatomical substrate for large-scale parallel processing of information in the cerebral cortex. Functional coactivation of multiple cortical areas has been demonstrated by neurophysiological studies in non-human primates and several different cognitive functions have been shown to depend on multiple distributed areas by human neuropsychological studies. Electrophysiological studies on interareal synchronization have provided evidence that active neurons in different cortical areas may become not only coactive, but also functionally interdependent. The computational advantages of synchronization between cortical areas in large-scale networks have been elucidated by studies using artificial neural network models. Recent observations of time-varying multi-areal cortical synchronization suggest that the functional topology of a large-scale cortical network is dynamically reorganized during visuomotor behavior.
948	symbolic	2003	McClelland, JL; Rogers, TT	The parallel distributed processing approach to semantic cognition	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	How do we know what properties something has, and which of its properties should be generalized to other objects? How is the knowledge underlying these abilities acquired, and how is it affected by brain disorders? Our approach to these issues is based on the idea that cognitive processes arise from the interactions of neurons through synaptic connections. The knowledge in such interactive and distributed processing systems is stored in the strengths of the connections and is acquired gradually through experience. Degradation of semantic knowledge occurs through degradation of the patterns of neural activity that probe the knowledge stored in the connections. Simulation models based on these ideas capture semantic cognitive processes and their development and disintegration, encompassing domain-specific patterns of generalization in young children, and the restructuring of conceptual knowledge as a function of experience.
949	symbolic	2005	O'Keefe, J; Burgess, N	Dual phase and rate coding in hippocampal place cells: Theoretical significance and relationship to entorhinal grid cells	HIPPOCAMPUS	We review the ideas and data behind the hypothesis that hippocampal pyramidal cells encode information by their phase of firing relative to the theta rhythm of the EEG. Particular focus is given to the further hypothesis that variations in firing rate can encode information independently from that encoded by firing phase. We discuss possible explanation of the phase-precession effect in terms of interference between two independent oscillatory influences on the pyramidal cell membrane potential, and the extent to which firing phase reflects internal dynamics or external (environmental) variables. Finally, we propose a model of the firing of the recently discovered ''grid cells'' in entorhinal cortex as part of a path-integration system, in combination with place cells and head-direction cells. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
950	symbolic	1996	Levy, WB	A sequence predicting CA3 is a flexible associator that learns and uses context to solve hippocampal-like tasks	HIPPOCAMPUS	The model discussed in this paper is, by hypothesis, a minimal, biological plausible model of hippocampal region CA3. Because cognitive mapping can be viewed as a sequence prediction problem, we qualify this model as a successful sequence predictor. Since the model solves problems which, at least one, requires a hippocampus. Thus, by solving sequence problems, by solving configural learning problems, and by creating codes for context, this model provides a computational unification of hippocampal functions which are often viewed as disparate. (C) 1997 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
951	symbolic	2007	Reijneveld, JC; Ponten, SC; Berendse, HW; Stam, CJ	The application of graph theoretical analysis to complex networks in the brain	CLINICAL NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Considering the brain as a complex network of interacting dynamical systems offers new insights into higher level brain processes such as memory, planning, and abstract reasoning as well as various types of brain pathophysiology. This viewpoint provides the opportunity to apply new insights in network sciences, such as the discovery of small world and scale free networks, to data on anatomical and functional connectivity in the brain. In this review we start with some background knowledge on the history and recent advances in network theories in general. We emphasize the correlation between the structural properties of networks and the dynamics of these networks. We subsequently demonstrate through evidence from computational studies, in vivo experiments, and functional MRI, EEG and MEG studies in humans, that both the functional and anatomical connectivity of the healthy brain have many features of a small world network, but only to a limited extent of a scale free network. The small world structure of neural networks is hypothesized to reflect an optimal configuration associated with rapid synchronization and information transfer, minimal wiring costs, resilience to certain types of damage, as well as a balance between local processing and global integration. Eventually, we review the current knowledge on the effects of focal and diffuse brain disease on neural network characteristics, and demonstrate increasing evidence that both cognitive and psychiatric disturbances, as well as risk of epileptic seizures, are correlated with (changes in) functional network architectural features. 2007 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
952	symbolic	2007	Boucher, L; Palmeri, TJ; Logan, GD; Schall, JD	Inhibitory control in mind and brain: An interactive race model of countermanding Saccades	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The stop-signal task has been used to study normal cognitive control and clinical dysfunction. Its utility is derived from a race model that accounts for performance and provides an estimate of the time it takes to stop a movement. This model posits a race between go and stop processes with stochastically independent finish times. However, neurophysiological studies demonstrate that the neural correlates of the go and stop processes produce movements through a network of interacting neurons. The juxtaposition of the computational model with the neural data exposes a paradox-how can a network of interacting units produce behavior that appears to be the outcome of an independent race? The authors report how a simple, competitive network can solve this paradox and provide an account of what is measured by stop-signal reaction time.
953	symbolic	2001	Schumacher, EH; Seymour, TL; Glass, JM; Fencsik, DE; Lauber, EJ; Kieras, DE; Meyer, DE	Virtually perfect time sharing in dual-task performance: Uncorking the central cognitive bottleneck	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	A fundamental issue foe psychological science concerns the extent to which people can simultaneously perform two perceptual-motor tasks. Some theorists have hypothesized that skilled procedural decision making and response selection for two or more tasks can proceed at the same time under adaptive executive control. The three experiments reported here support this latter hypothesis. Their results show that after relatively modest amounts of practice, at least some participants achieve perfect time sharing in the dual-task performance of basic choice reaction tasks. The results also show that observed interference between tasks can be modulated by instructions about differential task priorities and personnel preferences for darting (concurrent) or cautious (successive) scheduling tasks. Given this outcome, future research should investigate exactly when and how such sophisticated skills in dual-task performance are acquired.
954	symbolic	1998	van Gelder, T	The dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	According to the dominant computational approach in cognitive science, cognitive agents are digital computers; according to the alternative approach, they are dynamical systems. This target article attempts to articulate and support the dynamical hypothesis. The dynamical hypothesis has two major components: the nature hypothesis (cognitive agents are dynamical systems) and the knowledge hypothesis (cognitive agents can be understood dynamically). A wide range of objections to this hypothesis can be rebutted. The conclusion is that cognitive systems may well be dynamical systems, and only sustained empirical research in cognitive science will determine the extent to which that is true.
955	symbolic	2003	Schneider, W; Chein, JM	Controlled & automatic processing: behavior, theory, and biological mechanisms	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper provides an overview of developments in a dual processing theory of automatic and controlled processing that began with the empirical and theoretical work described by Schneider and Shiffrin (1977) and Shiffrin and Schneider (1977) over a quarter century ago. A review of relevant empirical findings suggests that there is a set of core behavioral phenomena reflecting differences between controlled and automatic processing that must be addressed by a successful theory. These phenomena relate to: consistency in training, serial versus parallel processing, level of effort, robustness to stressors, degree of control, effects on long-term memory, and priority encoding. We detail a computational model of controlled processing, CAP2, that accounts for these phenomena as emergent properties of an underlying hybrid computational architecture. The model employs a large network of distributed data modules that can categorize, buffer, associate, and prioritize information. Each module is a connectionist network with input and output layers, and each module communicates with a central Control System by outputting priority and activity report signals, and by receiving control signals. The Control System is composed of five processors including a Goal Processor, an Attention Controller, an Activity Monitor, an Episodic Store, and a Gating & Report Relay. The transition from controlled to automatic processing occurs in this model as the data modules become capable of transmitting their output without mediation by the Control System. We describe recent progress in mapping the components of this model onto specific neuroanatomical substrates, briefly discuss the potential for applying functional neuroimaging techniques to test the model's predictions, and its relation to other models. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
956	symbolic	2001	Braver, TS; Barch, DM; Keys, BA; Carter, CS; Cohen, JD; Kaye, JA; Janowsky, JS; Taylor, SF; Yesavage, JA; Mumenthaler, MS; Jagust, WJ; Reed, BR	Context processing in older adults: Evidence for a theory relating cognitive control to neurobiology in healthy aging	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	A theory of cognitive aging is presented in which healthy older adults are hypothesized to suffer from disturbances in the processing of context that impair cognitive control function across multiple domains, including attention, inhibition, and working memory. These cognitive disturbances are postulated to be directly related to age-related decline in the function of the dopamine (DA) system in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). A connectionist computational model is described that implements specific mechanisms for the role of DA and PFC in context processing. The behavioral predictions of the model were tested in a large sample of older (N = 81) and young (N = 175) adults performing variants of a simple cognitive control task that placed differential demands on context processing. Older adults exhibited both performance decrements and, counterintuitively, performance improvements that are in close agreement with model predictions.
957	symbolic	1996	OBoyle, DJ; Freeman, JS; Cody, FWJ	The accuracy and precision of timing of self-paced, repetitive movements in subjects with Parkinson's disease	BRAIN	In separate experiments, we studied the temporal accuracy and precision of self-paced, repetitive finger-tapping in two groups of 12 patients with Parkinson's disease and a group of 12 controls matched to the patients with respect to age and general cognitive state. One group (I) of patients was studied initially following 12-15 h abstinence from normal levodopa medication ('off') and again, subsequently, similar to 1 h after ingestion of a single normal dose ('on'). A second group (II) of patients, each of whom had bilaterally asymmetrical neurological signs, was tested using 'worse' and 'better' hands separately. Within each session, subjects were tested repeatedly on a tapping task during which they were required to produce a regular series of self-timed inter-tap intervals, the target duration (550 ms) of which had been established previously during an initial period of tapping in synchrony with the beats of a regular metronome. We employed Wing and Kristofferson's (1973) model of control of motor timing to partition the total variance (TV) about the mean interresponse interval (IRI) produced during the self-paced phase of each run into separate components ['clock' variance (CV) and 'motor-delay' variance (MDV)] attributable to hypothetical 'clock' and 'motor-implementation' processes. Although the mean self-paced IRI of parkinsonian patients was generally shorter than that of controls, only during the 'on' medication condition (Group I) was it significantly so. By comparison with control values, and those observed during the 'on' medication condition, values of TV, CV and MDV in Group I were all significantly higher when subjects were 'off' medication. During the 'on' medication condition, only CV was significantly higher than the control value. In Group II, values of TV, CV and MDV associated with use of the 'worse' hand were all significantly higher than both control values and those associated with use of the 'better' hand Values of these variables when subjects used the 'better' hand did not, however differ significantly from control values. The theoretical import of these results is discussed in the light of several important procedural, statistical and computational issues and we conclude that TV, CV and MDV may all vary significantly as a function of the efficacy of dopaminergic transmission in the basal ganglia.
958	symbolic	2005	Lewis, RL; Vasishth, S	An activation-based model of sentence processing as skilled memory retrieval	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present a detailed process theory of the moment-by-moment working-memory retrievals and associated control structure that subserve sentence comprehension. The theory is derived from the application of independently motivated principles of memory and cognitive skill to the specialized task of sentence parsing. The resulting theory construes sentence processing as a series of skilled associative memory retrievals modulated by similarity-based interference and fluctuating activation. The cognitive principles are formalized in computational form in the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) architecture, and our process model is realized in ACT-R. We present the results of 6 sets of simulations: 5 simulation sets provide quantitative accounts of the effects of length and structural interference on both unambiguous and garden-path structures. A final simulation set provides a graded taxonomy of double center embeddings ranging from relatively easy to extremely difficult. The explanation of center-embedding difficulty is a novel one that derives from the model's complete reliance on discriminating retrieval cues in the absence of an explicit representation of serial order information. All fits were obtained with only 1 free scaling parameter fixed across the simulations; all other parameters were ACT-R defaults. The modeling results support the hypothesis that fluctuating activation and similarity-based interference are the key factors shaping working memory in sentence processing. We contrast the theory and empirical predictions with several related accounts of sentence-processing complexity.
959	symbolic	2005	Frank, MJ; Woroch, BS; Curran, T	Error-related negativity predicts reinforcement learning and conflict biases	NEURON	The error-related negativity (ERN) is an electrophysiological marker thought to reflect changes in dopamine when participants make errors in cognitive tasks. Our computational model further predicts that larger ERNs should be associated with better learning to avoid maladaptive responses. Here we show that participants who avoided negative events had larger ERNs than those who were biased to learn more from positive outcomes. We also tested for effects of response conflict on ERN magnitude. While there was no overall effect of conflict, positive learners had larger ERNs when having to choose among two good options (win/win decisions) compared with two bad options (lose/lose decisions), whereas negative learners exhibited the opposite pattern. These results demonstrate that the ERN predicts the degree to which participants are biased to learn more from their mistakes than their correct choices and clarify the extent to which it indexes decision conflict.
960	symbolic	2006	Frank, MJ; O'Reilly, RC	A mechanistic account of striatal dopamine function in human cognition: Psychopharmacological studies with cabergoline and haloperidol	BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The authors test a neurocomputational model of dopamine function in cognition by administering to healthy participants low doses of D-2 agents cabergoline and haloperidol. The model suggests that DA dynamically modulates the balance of Go and No-Go basal ganglia pathways during cognitive learning and performance. Cabergoline impaired, while haloperidol enhanced, Go learning from positive reinforcement, consistent with presynaptic drug effects. Cabergoline also caused an overall bias toward Go responding, consistent with postsynaptic action. These same effects extended to working memory and attentional domains, supporting the idea that the basal ganglia/dopamine system modulates the updating of prefrontal representations. Drug effects interacted with baseline working memory span in all tasks. Taken together, the results support a unified account of the role of dopamine in modulating cognitive processes that depend on the basal ganglia.
961	symbolic	1997	Kieras, DE; Meyer, DE	An overview of the EPIC architecture for cognition and performance with application to human-computer interaction	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	EPIC (Executive Process-Interactive (Control) is a cognitive architecture especially suited for modeling human multimodal and multiple-task performance. The EPIC architecture includes peripheral sensory-motor processors surrounding a production-rule cognitive processor and is being used to construct precise computational models for a variety of human-computer interaction situations. We briefly describe some of these models to demonstrate how EPIC clarifies basic properties of human performance and provides usefully precise accounts of performance speed.
962	symbolic	2008	Durstewitz, D; Seamans, JK	The Dual-State Theory of Prefrontal Cortex Dopamine Function with Relevance to Catechol-O-Methyltransferase Genotypes and Schizophrenia	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	There is now general consensus that at least some of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are related to dysfunctions in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) dopamine (DA) system. At the cellular and synaptic level, the effects of DA in PFC via D1 - and D2-class receptors are highly complex, often apparently opposing, and hence difficult to understand with regard to their functional implications. Biophysically realistic computational models have provided valuable insights into how the effects of DA on PFC neurons and synaptic currents as measured in vitro link up to the neural network and cognitive levels. They suggest the existence of two discrete dynamical regimes, a D1-dominated state characterized by a high energy barrier among different network patterns that favors robust online maintenance of information and a D2-dominated state characterized by a low energy barrier that is beneficial for flexible and fast switching among representational states. These predictions are consistent with a variety of electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and behavioral results in humans and nonhuman species. Moreover, these biophysically based models predict that imbalanced D1:D2 receptor activation causing extremely low or extremely high energy barriers among activity states could lead to the emergence of cognitive, positive, and negative symptoms observed in schizophrenia. Thus, combined experimental and computational approaches hold the promise of allowing a detailed mechanistic understanding of how DA alters information processing in normal and pathological conditions, thereby potentially providing new routes for the development of pharmacological treatments for schizophrenia.
963	symbolic	1997	Trullier, O; Wiener, SI; Berthoz, A; Meyer, JA	Biologically based artificial navigation systems: Review and prospects	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Diverse theories of animal navigation aim at explaining how to determine and maintain a course from one place to another in the environment, although each presents a particular perspective with its own terminologies. These vocabularies sometimes overlap, but unfortunately with different meanings. This paper attempts to define precisely the existing concepts and terminologies, so as to describe comprehensively the different theories and models within the same unifying framework. We present navigation strategies within a four-level hierarchical framework based upon levels of complexity of required processing (Guidance, Place recognition-triggered Response, Topological navigation, Metric navigation). This classification is based upon what information is perceived, represented and processed. It contrasts with common distinctions based upon the availability of certain sensors or cues and rather stresses the information structure and content of central processors. We then review computational models of animal navigation, i.e. of animals. These are introduced along with the underlying conceptual basis in biological data drawn from behavioral and physiological experiments, with emphasis on theories of ''spatial cognitive maps''. The goal is to aid in deriving algorithms based upon insights into these processes, algorithms that can be useful both for psychobiologists and roboticists. The main observation is, however, that despite the fact that all reviewed models claim to have biological inspiration and that some of them explicitly use ''Cognitive Map''-like mechanisms, they correspond to different levels of our proposed hierarchy and that none of them exhibits the main capabilities of real ''Cognitive Maps'' - in Tolman's sense - that is, a robust capacity for detour and shortcut behaviors. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
964	symbolic	1995	STENNING, K; OBERLANDER, J	A COGNITIVE THEORY OF GRAPHICAL AND LINGUISTIC REASONING - LOGIC AND IMPLEMENTATION	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We discuss external and internal graphical and linguistic representational systems. We argue that a cognitive theory of peoples' reasoning performance must account for (a) the logical equivalence of inferences expressed in graphical and linguistic form, and (b) the implementational differences that affect facility of inference. Our theory proposes that graphical representation limit abstraction and thereby aid ''processibility.'' We discuss the ideas of specificity and abstraction, and their cognitive relevance. Empirical support both comes from tasks which involve the manipulation of external graphics and tasks that do not. For the former, we take Euler's (1772) circles, provide a novel computational reconstruction, show how it captures abstractions, and contrast if with earlier construals and with Johnson-Lairds (1983) mental models representations. We demonstrate equivalence of the graphical Euler system, and the nongraphical mental models system, For tasks not involving manipulation of external graphics, we discuss text comprehension, and the mental performance of syllogisms. By positing an internal system with the some specificity as Euler's circles, we cover the mental models data, and generate new empirical predictions. Finally. we consider how the architecture of working memory explains why such specific representations are relatively easy to store.
965	symbolic	2001	Junker, BW; Sijtsma, K	Cognitive assessment models with few assumptions, and connections with nonparametric item response theory	APPLIED PSYCHOLOGICAL MEASUREMENT	Some usability and interpretability issues for single-strategy cognitive assessment models are considered. These models posit a stochastic conjunctive relationship between a set of cognitive attributes to be assessed and performance on particular items/tasks in the assessment. The models considered make few assumptions about the relationship between latent attributes and task performance beyond a simple conjunctive structure. An example shows that these models. can be sensitive to cognitive attributes, even in data designed to well fit the Rasch model. Several stochastic ordering and monotonicity properties are considered that enhance the interpretability of the models. Simple data summaries are identified that inform about the presence or absence of cognitive attributes when the full computational power needed to estimate the models is not available.
966	symbolic	2002	Roy, DK; Pentland, AP	Learning words from sights and sounds: a computational model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper presents an implemented computational model of word acquisition which learns directly from raw multimodal sensory input. Set in an information theoretic framework, the model acquires a lexicon by finding and statistically modeling consistent cross-modal structure. The model has been implemented in a system using novel speech processing, computer vision, and machine learning algorithms. In evaluations the model successfully performed speech segmentation, word discovery and visual categorization from spontaneous infant-directed speech paired with video images of single objects. These results demonstrate the possibility of using state-of-the-art techniques from sensory pattern recognition and machine learning to implement cognitive models which can process raw sensor data without the need for human transcription or labeling. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
967	symbolic	2007	O'Doherty, JP; Hampton, A; Kim, H	Model-based fMRI and its application to reward learning and decision making	REWARD AND DECISION MAKING IN CORTICOBASAL GANGLIA NETWORKS	In model-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), signals derived from a computational model for a specific cognitive process are correlated against fMRI data from subjects performing a relevant task to determine brain regions showing a response profile consistent with that model. A key advantage of this technique over more conventional neuroimaging approaches is that model-based fMRI can provide insights into how a particular cognitive process is implemented in a specific brain area as opposed to merely identifying where a particular process is located. This review will briefly summarize the approach of model-based fMRI, with reference to the field of reward learning and decision making, where computational models have been used to probe the neural mechanisms underlying learning of reward associations, modifying action choice to obtain reward, as well as in encoding expected value signals that reflect the abstract structure of a decision problem. Finally, some of the limitations of this approach will be discussed.
968	symbolic	2002	Pitt, MA; Myung, IJ	When a good fit can be bad	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	How should we select among computational models of cognition? Although it is commonplace to measure how well each model fits the data, this is insufficient. Good fits can be misleading because they can result from properties of the model that have nothing to do with it being a close approximation to the cognitive process of interest (e.g. overfitting). Selection methods are introduced that factor in these properties when measuring fit. Their success in outperforming standard goodness-of-fit measures stems from a focus on measuring the generalizability of a model's data-fitting abilities, which should be the goal of model selection.
969	symbolic	2001	Ullman, MT	The declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar	JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLINGUISTIC RESEARCH	Our use of language depends upon two capacities: a mental lexicon of memorized words and a mental grammar of rules that underlie the sequential and hierarchical composition of lexical forms into predictably structured larger words, phrases, and sentences. The declarative/procedural model posits that the lexicon/grammar distinction in language is tied to the distinction between two well-studied brain memory systems. On this view, the memorization and use of at least simple words (those with noncompositional, that is, arbitrary form-meaning pairings) depends upon an associative memory of distributed representations that is subserved by temporal-lobe circuits previously implicated in the learning and use of fact and event knowledge. This "declarative memory" system appears to be specialized for learning arbitrarily related information (i.e., far associative binding). In contrast the acquisition and use of grammatical rules that underlie symbol manipulation is subserved by frontal/basal-ganglia circuits previously implicated in the implicit (nonconscious) learning and expression of motor and cognitive "skills" and "habits" (e.g., from simple motor acts to skilled game playing). This "procedural" system may be specialized for computing sequences. This novel view of lexicon and grammar offers an alternative to the two main competing theoretical frameworks. It shares the perspective of traditional dual-mechanism theories in positing that the mental lexicon and a symbol-manipulating mental grammar are subserved by distinct computational components that may be linked to distinct brain structures However it diverges from these theories where they assume components dedicated to each of the two language capacities (that is, domain-specific) and in their common assumption that lexical memory is a rote list of items. Conversely, while it shares with single-mechanism theories the perspective that the two capacities are subserved by domain-independent computational mechanisms, it diverges from them where they link both capacities to a single associative memory system with broad anatomic distribution The declarative/procedural model, but neither traditional dual- nor single-mechanism models, predicts double dissociations between lexicon and grammar; with associations among associative memory properties, memorized words and facts, and temporal-lobe structures, and among symbol-manipulation properties, grammatical rule products, motor skills, and frontal/basal-ganglia structures. In order to contrast lexicon and grammar while holding other factors constant, we have focused our investigations of the declarative/procedural model on morphologically complex word farms. Morphological transformations that are (largely) unproductive (e.g., in go-went, solemn-solemnity) are hypothesized to depend upon declarative memory. These have been contrasted with morphological transformations that are fully productive (e.g., in walk-walked, happy-happiness), whose computation is posited to be solely dependent upon grammatical rules subserved by the procedural system. Here evidence is presented from studies that use a range of psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic approaches with children and adults. It is argued that converging evidence from these studies supports the declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar.
970	symbolic	2008	Botvinick, MM	Hierarchical models of behavior and prefrontal function	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The recognition of hierarchical structure in human behavior was one of the founding insights of the cognitive revolution. Despite decades of research, however, the computational mechanisms underlying hierarchically organized behavior are still not fully understood. Recent findings from behavioral and neuroscientific research have fueled a resurgence of interest in the problem, inspiring a new generation of computational models. In addition to developing some classic proposals, these models also break fresh ground, teasing apart different forms of hierarchical structure, placing a new focus on the issue of learning and addressing recent findings concerning the representation of behavioral hierarchies within the prefrontal cortex. In addition to offering explanations for some key aspects of behavior and functional neuroanatomy, the latest models also pose new questions for empirical research.
971	symbolic	1991	Dehaene, S; Changeux, JP	The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test: Theoretical Analysis and Modeling in a Neuronal Network	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Neuropsychologists commonly use the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test as a test of the integrity of frontal lobe functions. However, an account of its range of validity and of the neuronal mechanisms involved is lacking. We analyze the test at 3 different levels. First, the different versions of the test are described, and the results obtained with normal subjects and brain-lesioned patients are reviewed. Second, a computational analysis is used to reveal what algorithms may pass the test, and to predict their respective performances. At this stage, 3 cognitive components are isolated that may critically contribute to performance: the ability to change the current rule when negative reward occurs, the capacity to memorize previously tested rules in order to avoid testing them twice, and the possibility of rejecting some rules a priori by reasoning. Third, a model neuronal network embodying these 3 components is described. The coding units are clusters of neurons organized in layers, or assemblies. A sensorimotor loop enables the network to sort the input cards according to several criteria (color, form, etc.). A higher-level assembly of rule-coding clusters codes for the currently tested rule, which shifts when negative reward is received. Internal testing of the possible rules, analogous to a reasoning process, also occurs, by means of an endogenous auto-evaluation loop. When lesioned, the model reproduces the behavior of frontal lobe patients. Plausible biological or molecular implementations are presented for several of its components.
972	symbolic	2003	Newman, SD; Carpenter, PA; Varma, S; Just, MA	Frontal and parietal participation in problem solving in the Tower of London: fMRI and computational modeling of planning and high-level perception	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	This study triangulates executive planning and visuo-spatial reasoning in the context of the Tower of London (TOL) task by using a variety of methodological approaches. These approaches include functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), functional connectivity analysis, individual difference analysis, and computational modeling. A graded fMRI paradigm compared the brain activation during the solution of problems with varying path lengths: easy (I and 2 moves), moderate (3 and 4 moves) and difficult (5 and 6 moves). There were three central findings regarding the prefrontal cortex: (1) while both the left and right prefrontal cortices were equally involved during the solution of moderate and difficult problems, the activation on the right was differentially attenuated during the solution of the easy problems; (2) the activation observed in the right prefrontal cortex was highly correlated with individual differences in working memory (measured independently by the reading span task); and (3) different patterns of functional connectivity were observed in the left and right prefrontal cortices. Results obtained from the superior parietal region also revealed left/right differences; only the left superior parietal region revealed an effect of difficulty. These fMRI results converged upon two hypotheses: (1) the right prefrontal area may be more involved in the generation of a plan, whereas the left prefrontal area may be more involved in plan execution; and (2) the right superior parietal region is more involved in attention processes while the left homologue is more of a visuo-spatial workspace. A 4CAPS computational model of the cognitive processes and brain activation in the TOL task integrated these hypothesized mechanisms, and provided a reasonably good fit to the observed behavioral and brain activation data. The multiple research approaches presented here converge on a deepening understanding of the combination of perceptual and conceptual processes in this type of visual problem solving. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
973	symbolic	2002	Navon, D; Miller, J	Queuing or sharing? A critical evaluation of the single-bottleneck notion	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	The model of a single central bottleneck for human information processing is critically examined. Most evidence cited in support of the model has been observed within the overlapping tasks paradigm. It is shown here that most findings obtained within that paradigm and that were used to support the model are also consistent with a simple resource model. The most prominent findings are the millisecond-for-millisecond slope at the left of the RT2-SOA curve, the high RT1-RT2 correlation, the additivity of the effects on RT2 of SOA and of the difficulty of selecting R2, and the washout of the effect of S2 discriminability on RT2 in a dual-task condition. In addition, the asymmetry of the effects of the dual-task requirement on RT1 and RT2 can be accounted for by the resource model provided that it assumes uneven allocation of resources, which is quite reasonable in view of the task asymmetry inherent in the demand characteristics of the paradigm. The same is true for two other findings that appear to support the single-bottleneck model-that in the dual-task condition, the demand of the first task affects equally RT1 and RT2 and that its effect on RT1 is the same as the cot-responding effect in the single-task condition. Furthermore, the single-bottleneck model is hard to reconcile with a negative slope at the left of the RT1-SOA curve or a positive slope at the left of the IR1-SOA curve, unless augmented by ancillary assumptions, that are yet to be substantiated. Representative data were fit by each of the models using its optimal set of parameters. Both models achieved quite good degrees of fit. It is further argued that since the overlapping tasks paradigm is heavily biased in favor of a speedy reaction to the stimulus that appears first, it is nonoptimal for testing the central bottleneck model, Finally. the bottleneck model is examined in terms of other scientific criteria. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science (USA).
974	symbolic	1997	Gupta, P; MacWhinney, B	Vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory: Computational and neural bases	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	In this paper, we explore the hypothesis that human vocabulary acquisition processes and verbal short-term memory abilities utilize a common cognitive and neural system. We begin by reviewing behavioral evidence for a shared set of processes. Next, we examine what the computational bases of such a shared system might be and how vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory might be related in mechanistic terms. We examine existing computational models of vocabulary acquisition and of verbal short-term memory, concluding that they fail to adequately relate these two domains. We then propose an alternative model which accounts not only for the relationship between word learning and verbal short-term memory, but also for a wide range of phenomena in verbal short-term memory. Furthermore, this new account provides a clear statement of the relationship between the proposed system and mechanisms of language processing more generally. We then consider possible neural substrates for this cognitive system. We begin by reviewing what is known of the neural substrates of speech processing and outline a conceptual framework within which a variety of seemingly contradictory neurophysiological and neuropsychological findings can be accommodated. The linkage of the shared system for vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory to neural areas specifically involved in speech processing lends further support to our functional-level identification of the mechanisms of vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory with those of language processing. The present work thus relates vocabulary acquisition and verbal short-term memory to each other and to speech processing, at a cognitive, computational, and neural level. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
975	symbolic	1997	Kolodner, JL	Educational implications of analogy - A view from case-based reasoning	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Case-based reasoning (CBR) focuses on analogy in the context of solving real-world problems. Its research methodology of computational modeling is aimed at deriving hypotheses about cognition. CBR's computational models show the roles of encoding, retrieval, and adaptation in analogical reasoning processes. In addition, its algorithms provide insight into what it might fake to enhance human cognition. CBR as a plausible cognitive model can thus advise on educational philosophy educational practice, and design of educational software.
976	symbolic	2009	Aimone, JB; Wiles, J; Gage, FH	Computational Influence of Adult Neurogenesis on Memory Encoding	NEURON	Adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus leads to the incorporation of thousands of new granule cells into the dentate gyrus every month, but its function remains unclear. Here, we present computational evidence that indicates that adult neurogenesis may make three separate but related contributions to memory formation. First, immature neurons introduce a degree of similarity to memories learned at the same time, a process we refer to as pattern integration. Second, the extended maturation and change in excitability of these neurons make this added similarity a time-dependent effect, supporting the possibility that temporal information is included in new hippocampal memories. Finally, our model suggests that the experience-dependent addition of neurons results in a dentate gyrus network well suited for encoding new memories in familiar contexts while treating novel contexts differently. Taken together, these results indicate that new granule cells may affect hippocampal function in several unique and previously unpredicted ways.
977	symbolic	2000	Foygel, D; Dell, GS	Models of impaired lexical access in speech production	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Two computational models of lexical access in aphasic speakers are compared. Both are derived from an interactive two-step theory of retrieval based on spreading activation. The weight-decay model (Dell et al., 1997) associates patients with deviant values of two parameters, global connection weight and global decal rate. The new semantic-phonological model characterizes patients by two different parameters, semantic weight and phonological weight. We provide a detailed analysis of the properties of both models and show that the semantic-phonological model is a serious competitor to the earlier model. Not only does it fit existing patient data as well as the weight-decay model does but it also has closer ties to other facts and theories in cognitive neuropsychology and psycholinguistics. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
978	symbolic	1999	Suri, RE; Schultz, W	A neural network model with dopamine-like reinforcement signal that learns a spatial delayed response task	NEUROSCIENCE	This study investigated how the simulated response of dopamine neurons to reward-related stimuli could be used as reinforcement signal for learning a spatial delayed response task. Spatial delayed response tasks assess the functions of frontal cortex and basal ganglia in short-term memory, movement preparation and expectation of environmental events. In these tasks, a stimulus appears for a short period at a particular location, and after a delay the subject moves to the location indicated. Dopamine neurons are activated by unpredicted rewards and reward-predicting stimuli, are not influenced by fully predicted rewards, and are depressed by omitted rewards. Thus, they appear to report an error in the prediction of reward, which is the crucial reinforcement term in formal learning theories. Theoretical studies on reinforcement learning have shown that signals similar to dopamine responses can be used as effective teaching signals for learning. A neural network model implementing the temporal difference algorithm was trained to perform a simulated spatial delayed response task. The reinforcement signal was modeled according to the basic characteristics of dopamine responses to novel stimuli, primary rewards and reward-predicting stimuli. A Critic component analogous to dopamine neurons computed a temporal error in the prediction of reinforcement and emitted this signal to an Actor component which mediated the behavioral output. The spatial delayed response task was learned via two subtasks introducing spatial choices and temporal delays, in the same manner as monkeys in the laboratory. In all three tasks, the reinforcement signal of the Critic developed in a similar manner to the responses of natural dopamine neurons in comparable learning situations, and the learning curves of the Actor replicated the progress of learning observed in the animals. Several manipulations demonstrated further the efficacy of the particular characteristics of the dopamine-like reinforcement signal. Omission of reward induced a phasic reduction of the reinforcement signal at the time of the reward and led to extinction of learned actions. A reinforcement signal without prediction error resulted in impaired learning because of perseverative errors. Loss of learned behavior was seen with sustained reductions of the reinforcement signal, a situation in general comparable to the loss of dopamine innervation in Parkinsonian patients and experimentally lesioned animals. The striking similarities in teaching signals and learning behavior between the computational and biological results suggest that dopamine-like reward responses may serve as effective teaching signals for learning behavioral tasks that are typical for primate cognitive behavior, such as spatial delayed responding. (C) 1999 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
979	symbolic	1996	Kapur, N	Paradoxical functional facilitation in brain-behaviour research - A critical review	BRAIN	The aim in this review article is to document research findings that have shown paradoxical effects of nervous system changes, whereby direct or indirect neural damage may result in facilitation of behavioural functions. Such findings have often been ignored or undervalued in the brain-behaviour research literature. A further aim is to consider possible mechanisms and theoretical insights related to this facilitation. Analyses of relevant studies show that two major types of paradoxical functional facilitation (PFF) effects may be distinguished. (i) Situations where damage to intact brain tissue brings to normal or near normal a previously sub-normal or abnormal level of functioning. I refer to improved levels of functioning in such contexts as restorative PFF effects. One of the best documented examples of such PFF effects is the 'Sprague effect', whereby collicular lesions may bring about an improvement in visual functioning following an initial occipital lesion. (ii) Situations where a subject with nervous system pathology or sensory loss performs better than normal control subjects on a particular task. I refer to improved levels of performance in these contexts as enhancing PFF effects. Restorative and enhancing PFF effects have been found in a range of domains, including memory sensory and perceptual functions, and language functioning. A potential contribution of PFF effects is that they highlight two important neural mechanisms, i.e. inhibition and compensatory plasticity. Two broad classes of theoretical insights I-elated to PFF effects are therefore discussed: (i) inhibitory mechanisms, which form part of an interactive view of brain function where competitive opponent-processing is a significant feature; (ii) 'compensatory augmentation', which occurs as a specific manifestation of CNS plasticity. Both of these mechanisms are considered in relation to paradoxical increases in CBF and anatomical annexation effects that are seen in neurological patients and in subjects with sensory loss. Paradoxical functional facilitation paradigms represent a powerful methodological tool for confirming or refuting hypotheses in brain-behaviour research. The counter-intuitive nature of PFF findings provides a particularly persuasive set of evidence in support of neural, conceptual or computational models of brain function that specifically predict paradoxical facilitation of cognitive functioning.
980	symbolic	2014	Cavanagh, JF; Frank, MJ	Frontal theta as a mechanism for cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Recent advancements in cognitive neuroscience have afforded a description of neural responses in terms of latent algorithmic operations. However, the adoption of this approach to human scalp electroencephalography (EEG) has been more limited, despite the ability of this methodology to quantify canonical neuronal processes. Here, we provide evidence that theta band activities over the midfrontal cortex appear to reflect a common computation used for realizing the need for cognitive control. Moreover, by virtue of inherent properties of field oscillations, these theta band processes may be used to communicate this need and subsequently implement such control across disparate brain regions. Thus, frontal theta is a compelling candidate mechanism by which emergent processes, such as 'cognitive control', may be biophysically realized.
981	symbolic	2003	Steyvers, M; Tenenbaum, JB; Wagenmakers, EJ; Blum, B	Inferring causal networks from observations and interventions	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Information about the structure of a causal system can come in the form of observational data-random samples of the system's autonomous behavior-or interventional data-samples conditioned on the particular values of one or more variables that have been experimentally manipulated. Here we study people's ability to infer causal structure from both observation and intervention, and to choose informative interventions on the basis of observational data. In three causal inference tasks, participants were to some degree capable of distinguishing between competing causal hypotheses on the basis of purely observational data. Performance improved substantially when participants were allowed to observe the effects of interventions that they performed on the systems. We develop computational models of how people infer causal structure from data and how they plan intervention experiments, based on the representational framework of causal graphical models and the inferential principles of optimal Bayesian decision-making and maximizing expected information gain. These analyses suggest that people can make rational causal inferences, subject to psychologically reasonable representational assumptions and computationally reasonable processing constraints. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
982	symbolic	2009	Beckner, C; Ellis, NC; Blythe, R; Holland, J; Bybee, J; Ke, J; Christiansen, MH; Larsen-Freeman, D; Croft, W; Schoenemann, T	Language Is a Complex Adaptive System: Position Paper	LANGUAGE LEARNING	Language has a fundamentally social function. Processes of human interaction along with domain-general cognitive processes shape the structure and knowledge of language. Recent research in the cognitive sciences has demonstrated that patterns of use strongly affect how language is acquired, is used, and changes. These processes are not independent of one another but are facets of the same complex adaptive system (CAS). Language as a CAS involves the following key features: The system consists of multiple agents (the speakers in the speech community) interacting with one another. The system is adaptive; that is, speakers' behavior is based on their past interactions, and current and past interactions together feed forward into future behavior. A speaker's behavior is the consequence of competing factors ranging from perceptual constraints to social motivations. The structures of language emerge from interrelated patterns of experience, social interaction, and cognitive mechanisms. The CAS approach reveals commonalities in many areas of language research, including first and second language acquisition, historical linguistics, psycholinguistics, language evolution, and computational modeling.
983	symbolic	2009	Asada, M; Hosoda, K; Kuniyoshi, Y; Ishiguro, H; Inui, T; Yoshikawa, Y; Ogino, M; Yoshida, C	Cognitive Developmental Robotics: A Survey	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTONOMOUS MENTAL DEVELOPMENT	Cognitive developmental robotics (CDR) aims to provide new understanding of how human's higher cognitive functions develop by means of a synthetic approach that developmentally constructs cognitive functions. The core idea of CDR is "physical embodiment" that enables information structuring through interactions with the environment, including other agents. The idea is shaped based on the hypothesized development model of human cognitive functions from body representation to social behavior. Along with the model, studies of CDR and related works are introduced, and discussion on the model and future issues are argued.
984	symbolic	2009	Botvinick, MM; Niv, Y; Barto, AC	Hierarchically organized behavior and its neural foundations: A reinforcement learning perspective	COGNITION	Research on human and animal behavior has long emphasized its hierarchical structure the divisibility of ongoing behavior into discrete tasks, which are comprised of subtask sequences, which in turn are built of simple actions. The hierarchical structure of behavior has also been of enduring interest within neuroscience, where it has been widely considered to reflect prefrontal cortical functions. In this paper, we reexamine behavioral hierarchy and its neural substrates from the point of view of recent developments in computational reinforcement learning. Specifically, we consider a set of approaches known collectively as hierarchical reinforcement learning, which extend the reinforcement learning paradigm by allowing the learning agent to aggregate actions into reusable subroutines or skills. A close took at the components of hierarchical reinforcement learning suggests how they might map onto neural structures, in particular regions within the dorsolateral and orbital prefrontal cortex. It also suggests specific ways in which hierarchical reinforcement learning might provide a complement to existing psychological models of hierarchically structured behavior. A particularly important question that hierarchical reinforcement learning brings to the fore is that of how learning identifies new action routines that are likely to provide useful building blocks in solving a wide range of future problems. Here and at many other points. hierarchical reinforcement learning offers an appealing framework for investigating the computational and neural underpinnings of hierarchically structured behavior. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
985	symbolic	2008	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA	Threaded cognition: An integrated theory of concurrent multitasking	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors propose the idea of threaded cognition, an integrated theory of concurrent multitasking-that is, performing 2 or more tasks at once. Threaded cognition posits that streams of thought can be represented as threads of processing coordinated by a serial procedural resource and executed across other available resources (e.g., perceptual and motor resources). The theory specifies a parsimonious mechanism that allows for concurrent execution, resource acquisition, and resolution of resource conflicts, without the need for specialized executive processes. By instantiating this mechanism as a computational model, threaded cognition provides explicit predictions of how multitasking behavior can result in interference, or lack thereof, for a given set of tasks. The authors illustrate the theory in model simulations of several representative domains ranging from simple laboratory tasks such as dual-choice tasks to complex real-world domains such as driving and driver distraction.
986	symbolic	2005	Wearne, SL; Rodriguez, A; Ehlenberger, DB; Rocher, AB; Henderson, SC; Hof, PR	New techniques for imaging, digitization and analysis of three-dimensional neural morphology on multiple scales	NEUROSCIENCE	Cognitive impairment in normal aging and neurodegenerative diseases is accompanied by altered morphologies on multiple scales. Understanding of the role of these structural changes in producing functional deficits in brain aging and neuropsychiatric disorders requires accurate three-dimensional representations of neuronal morphology, and realistic biophysical modeling that can directly relate structural changes to altered neuronal firing patterns. To date however, tools capable of resolving, digitizing and analyzing neuronal morphology on both local and global scales, and with sufficient throughput and automation, have been lacking. The precision of existing image analysis-based morphometric tools is restricted at the finest scales, where resolution of fine dendritic features and spine geometry is limited by the skeletonization methods used, and by quantization errors arising from insufficient imaging resolution. We are developing techniques for imaging, reconstruction and analysis of neuronal morphology that capture both local and global structural variation. To minimize quantization error and evaluate more precisely the fine geometry of dendrites and spines, we introduce a new shape analysis technique, the Rayburst sampling algorithm that uses the original grayscale data rather than the segmented images for precise, continuous radius estimation, and multidirectional radius sampling to represent non-circular branch cross-sections and anisotropic structures such as dendritic spine heads, with greater accuracy. We apply the Rayburst technique to 3D neuronal shape analysis at different scales. We reconstruct and digitize entire neurons from stacks of laser-scanning microscopy images, as well as globally complex structures such as multineuron networks and microvascular networks. We also introduce imaging techniques necessary to recover detailed information on three-dimensional mass distribution and surface roughness of amyloid beta plaques from human Alzheimer's disease patients and from the Tg2576 mouse that expresses the '' Swedish '' mutation of the amyloid precursor protein. By providing true three-dimensional morphometry of complex histologic structures on multiple scales, the tools described in this report will enable multiscale biophysical modeling studies capable of testing potential mechanisms by which altered dendritic structure, spine geometry and network branching patterns that occur in normal aging and in many brain disorders, determine deficits of functions such as working memory and cognition. (c) 2005 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
987	symbolic	1998	Beiser, DG; Houk, JC	Model of cortical-basal ganglionic processing: Encoding the serial order of sensory events	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	Several lines of evidence suggest that the prefrontal(PF) cortex and basal ganglia are important in cognitive aspects of serial order in behavior. We present a modular neural network model of these areas that encodes the serial order of events into spatial patterns of PF activity. The model is based on the topographically specific circuits linking the PF with the basal ganglia. Each module traces a pathway from the PF, through the basal ganglia and thalamus, and back to the PF. The complete model consists of an array of modules interacting through recurrent corticostriatal projections and collateral inhibition between striatal spiny units. The model's architecture positions spiny units for the classification of cortical contexts and events and provides bistable cortical-thalamic loops for sustaining a representation of these contextual events in working memory activations. The model was tested with a simulated version of a delayed-sequencing task. In single-unit studies, the task begins with the presentation of a sequence of target lights. After a short delay, the monkey must touch the targets in the order in which they were presented. When instantiated with randomly distributed corticostriatal weights, the model produces different patterns of PF activation in response to different target sequences. These patterns represent an unambiguous and spatially distributed encoding of the sequence. Parameter studies of these random networks were used to compare the computational consequences of collateral and feed-forward inhibition within the striatum. In addition, we studied the receptive fields of 20,640 model units and uncovered an interesting set of cue-, rank- and sequence-related responses that qualitatively resemble responses reported in single unit studies of the PF. The majority of units respond to more than one sequence of stimuli. A method for analyzing serial receptive fields is presented and utilized for comparing the model units to single-unit data.
988	symbolic	1991	BRITTON, BK; GULGOZ, S	USING KINTSCH COMPUTATIONAL MODEL TO IMPROVE INSTRUCTIONAL TEXT - EFFECTS OF REPAIRING INFERENCE CALLS ON RECALL AND COGNITIVE STRUCTURES	JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
989	symbolic	2007	Kveraga, K; Ghuman, AS; Bar, M	Top-down predictions in the cognitive brain	BRAIN AND COGNITION	The human brain is not a passive organ simply waiting to be activated by external stimuli. Instead, we propose that the brain continuously employs memory of past experiences to interpret sensory information and predict the immediately relevant future. The basic elements of this proposal include analogical mapping, associative representations and the generation of predictions. This review concentrates on visual recognition as the model system for developing and testing ideas about the role and mechanisms of top-down predictions in the brain. We cover relevant behavioral, computational and neural aspects, explore links to emotion and action preparation, and consider clinical implications for schizophrenia and dyslexia. We then discuss the extension of the general principles of this proposal to other cognitive domains. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
990	symbolic	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	A survey of artificial cognitive systems: Implications for the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This survey presents an overview of the autonomous development of mental capabilities in computational agents. It does so based on a characterization of cognitive systems as systems which exhibit adaptive, anticipatory, and purposive goal-directed behavior. We present a broad survey of the various paradigms of cognition, addressing cognitivist (physical symbol systems) approaches, emergent systems approaches, encompassing connectionist, dynamical, and enactive systems, and also efforts to combine the two in hybrid systems. We then review several cognitive architectures drawn from these paradigms. In each of these areas, we highlight the implications and attendant problems of adopting a developmental approach, both from phylogenetic and ontogenetic points of view. We conclude with a summary of the key architectural features that systems capable of autonomous development of mental capabilities should exhibit.
991	symbolic	2010	Yassa, MA; Stark, SM; Bakker, A; Albert, MS; Gallagher, M; Stark, CEL	High-resolution structural and functional MRI of hippocampal CA3 and dentate gyrus in patients with amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment	NEUROIMAGE	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have observed hyperactivity in the hippocampal region in individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). However, the actual source of such hyperactivity is not well understood. Studies of aged rats observed similar hyperactive signals in the CA3 region of the hippocampus that correlated with spatial memory deficits and, in particular, with their ability to represent novel environments as being distinct from familiar ones (pattern separation). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that patients with amnestic MCI (aMCI) have deficits in pattern separation, along with hyperactive fMRI BOLD activity in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. We used high-resolution fMRI during a continuous recognition task designed to emphasize pattern separation. We conducted hippocampal subfield-level region of interest analyses to test for dysfunctional activity in aMCI patients. We found that patients showed impaired performance on trials that taxed their pattern separation abilities. We also observed hyperactive BOLD signals in the CA3/dentate and hypoactive signals in the entorhinal cortex during the separation condition. In a high-resolution morphometric analysis of hippocampal subfields, aMCI patients also had smaller CA3/dentate and CM volumes (no difference in the subiculum). The CA3/dentate region bilaterally also exhibited the largest shape deformations in aMCI patients, suggesting that this locus is affected early in the course of the disease. These findings suggest that structural and functional changes in the CA3/dentate region of the hippocampus contribute to the deficits in episodic memory that are observed in patients with aMCI. The functional hyperactivity may be evidence for a dysfunctional encoding mechanism, consistent with the predictions of computational models of hippocampal learning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
992	symbolic	2000	El-Nasr, MS; Yen, J; Ioerger, TR	FLAME - Fuzzy logic adaptive model of emotions	AUTONOMOUS AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	Emotions are an important aspect of human intelligence and have been shown to play a significant role in the human decision-making process. Researchers in areas such as cognitive science, philosophy, and artificial intelligence have proposed a variety of models of emotions. Most of the previous models focus on an agent's reactive behavior, for which they often generate emotions according to static rules or pre-determined domain knowledge. However, throughout the history of research on emotions, memory and experience have been emphasized to have a major influence on the emotional process. In this paper, we propose a new computational model of emotions that can be incorporated into intelligent agents and other complex, interactive programs. The model uses a fuzzy-logic representation to map events and observations to emotional states. The model also includes several inductive learning algorithms for learning patterns of events, associations among objects, and expectations. We demonstrate empirically through a computer simulation of a pet that the adaptive components of the model are crucial to users' assessments of the believability of the agent's interactions.
993	symbolic	2008	Egner, T	Multiple conflict-driven control mechanisms in the human brain	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Conflict between competing neural representations is thought to serve as an internal signal for the recruitment of 'cognitive control', which resolves conflict by biasing information processing in line with current task demands. Because conflict can occur at different levels of stimulus and response representations, several recent investigations have examined whether conflict-driven cognitive control is domain-general or domain-specific, that is, whether control recruited by one type of conflict affects the resolution of another, but these studies have produced contrary conclusions. I argue here that a critical reading of this literature indicates that the effects of conflict-driven control are domain-specific and are probably mediated by multiple, independent conflict-control loops that can operate in parallel.
994	symbolic	2006	Salvucci, DD	Modeling driver behavior in a cognitive architecture	HUMAN FACTORS	Objective: This paper explores the development of a rigorous computational model of driver behavior in a cognitive architecture - a computational framework with underlying psychological theories that incorporate basic properties and limitations of the human system. Background: Computational modeling has emerged as a powerful tool for studying the complex task of driving, allowing researchers to simulate driver behavior and explore the parameters and constraints of this behavior. Method: An integrated driver model developed in the ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) cognitive architecture is described that focuses on the component processes of control, monitoring, and decision making in a multilane highway environment. Results: This model accounts for the steering profiles, lateral position profiles, and gaze distributions of human drivers during lane keeping, curve negotiation, and lane changing. Conclusion: The model demonstrates how cognitive architectures facilitate understanding of driver behavior in the context of general human abilities and constraints and how the driving domain benefits cognitive architectures by pushing model development toward more complex, realistic tasks. Application: The model can also serve as a core computational engine for practical applications that predict and recognize driver behavior and distraction.
995	symbolic	2003	Steels, L	Evolving grounded communication for robots	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The computational and robotic synthesis of language evolution is emerging as a new exciting field of research. The objective is to come up with precise operational models of how communities of agents, equipped with a cognitive apparatus, a sensori-motor system, and a body, can arrive at shared grounded communication systems. Such systems may have similar characteristics to animal communication or human language. Apart from its technological interest in building novel applications in the domain of human-robot or robot-robot interaction, this research is of interest to the many disciplines concerned with the origins and evolution of language and communication.
996	symbolic	1997	Burgess, C; Lund, K	Modelling parsing constraints with high-dimensional context space	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning has been a long-standing problem in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. The lack of a model for representing semantic and grammatical knowledge has been a handicap in attempting to model the effects of semantic constraints in human syntactic processing. A computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analogue to Language (HAL), is presented with a series of simulations modelling a variety of human empirical results. HAL learns its representations from the unsupervised processing of 300 million words of conversational text. We propose that HAL's high-dimensional context space can be used to (1) provide a basic categorisation of semantic and grammatical concepts, (2) model certain aspects of morphological ambiguity in verbs, and (3) provide an account of semantic context effects in syntactic processing. We propose that the distributed and contextually derived representations that HAL acquires provide a basis for the subconceptual knowledge that can be used in accounting for a diverse set of cognitive phenomena.
997	symbolic	1995	PLAUT, DC	DOUBLE DISSOCIATION WITHOUT MODULARITY - EVIDENCE FROM CONNECTIONIST NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	Many theorists assume that the cognitive system is composed of a collection of encapsulated processing components or modules, each dedicated to performing a particular cognitive function. On this view, selective impairments of cognitive tasks following brain damage, as evidenced by double dissociations, are naturally interpreted in terms of the loss of particular processing components. By contrast, the current investigation examines in detail a double dissociation between concrete and abstract word reading after damage to a connectionist network that pronounces words via meaning and yet has no separable components (Plaut and Shallice, 1993). The functional specialization in the network that gives rise to the double dissociation is not transparently related to the network's structure, as modular theories assume. Furthermore, a consideration of the distribution of effects across quantitatively equivalent individual lesions in the network raises specific concerns about the interpretation of single-case studies. The findings underscore the necessity of relating neuropsychological data to cognitive theories in the context of specific computational assumptions about how the cognitive system operates normally and after damage.
998	symbolic	2008	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Hebbian learning of cognitive control: Dealing with specific and nonspecific adaptation	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The conflict monitoring model of M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) triggered several research programs investigating various aspects of cognitive control. One problematic aspect of the Botvinick et al. model is that there is no clear account of how the cognitive system knows where to intervene when conflict is detected. As a result, recent findings of task-specific and context-specific (e.g., item-specific) adaptation are difficult to interpret. The difficulty with item-specific adaptation was recently pointed out by C. Blais, S. Robidoux, E. F. Risko, and D. Besner (2007), who proposed an alternative model that could account for this. However, the same problem of where the cognitive system should intervene resurfaces in a different shape in this model, and it has difficulty in accounting for the Gratton effect, a hallmark item-nonspecific effect. The authors of the current article show how these problems can be solved when cognitive control is implemented as a conflict-modulated Hebbian learning rule.
999	symbolic	1998	Lawrence, AD; Sahakian, BJ; Robbins, TW	Cognitive functions and corticostriatal circuits: insights from Huntington's disease	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The basic Bade basic mechanisms of information processing by corticostriatal circuits are currently a matter of intense debate amongst cognitive scientists. Huntington's disease, an autosomal-dominant neurogenetic disorder characterized clinically by a triad of motor, cognitive, and affective disturbance, is associated with neuronal loss within corticostriatal circuits, and as such provides a valuable model for understanding the role of these circuits in normal behaviour, and their disruption in disease. We review findings from our studies of the breakdown of cognition in Huntington's disease, with particular emphasis on executive functions and visual recognition memory. We show that Huntington's disease patients exhibit a neuropsychological profile that shows a discernible pattern of progression with advancing disease, and appears to result from a in the mechanisms of response selection. These findings are consistent with computational models that suggest that corticostriatal circuits compute the patterns of sensory input and response output which are of behavioural significance a particular environmental context.
1000	symbolic	2010	Yonelinas, AP; Aly, M; Wang, WC; Koen, JD	Recollection and Familiarity: Examining Controversial Assumptions and New Directions	HIPPOCAMPUS	It is well accepted that recognition memory reflects the contribution of two separable memory retrieval processes, namely recollection and familiarity. However, fundamental questions remain regarding the functional nature and neural substrates of these processes. In this article, we describe a simple quantitative model of recognition memory (i.e., the dual-process signal detection model) that has been useful in integrating findings from a broad range of cognitive studies, and that is now being applied in a growing number of neuroscientific investigations of memory. The model makes several strong assumptions about the behavioral nature and neural substrates of recollection and familiarity. A review of the literature indicates that these assumptions are generally well supported, but that there are clear boundary conditions in which these assumptions break down. We argue that these findings provide important insights into the operation of the processes underlying recognition. Finally, we consider how the dual-process approach relates to recent neuroanatomical and computational models and how it might be integrated with recent findings concerning the role of medial temporal lobe regions in other cognitive functions such as novelty detection, perception, implicit memory and short-term memory. (c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
