1	bayesian	2015	Griffiths, TL; Lieder, F; Goodman, ND	Rational Use of Cognitive Resources: Levels of Analysis Between the Computational and the Algorithmic	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Marr's levels of analysiscomputational, algorithmic, and implementationhave served cognitive science well over the last 30years. But the recent increase in the popularity of the computational level raises a new challenge: How do we begin to relate models at different levels of analysis? We propose that it is possible to define levels of analysis that lie between the computational and the algorithmic, providing a way to build a bridge between computational- and algorithmic-level models. The key idea is to push the notion of rationality, often used in defining computational-level models, deeper toward the algorithmic level. We offer a simple recipe for reverse-engineering the mind's cognitive strategies by deriving optimal algorithms for a series of increasingly more realistic abstract computational architectures, which we call resource-rational analysis.
2	bayesian	2012	Bowers, JS; Davis, CJ	Is That What Bayesians Believe? Reply to Griffiths, Chater, Norris, and Pouget (2012)	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Griffiths, Chater, Norris, and Pouget (2012) argue that we have misunderstood the Bayesian approach. In their view, it is rarely the case that researchers are making claims that performance in a given task is near optimal, and few, if any, researchers adopt the theoretical Bayesian perspective according to which the mind or brain is actually performing (or approximating) Bayesian computations. Rather, researchers are said to adopt something more akin to what we called the methodological Bayesian approach, according to which Bayesian models are statistical tools that allow researchers to provide teleological explanations of behavior. In our reply we argue that many Bayesian researchers often appear to be make claims regarding optimality, and often appear to be making claims regarding how the mind computes at algorithmic and implementational levels of descriptions. We agree that some Bayesian theorists adopt the methodological approach, but we question the value of this approach. If Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience are only designed to provide insights into teleological questions, we expect that many readers have misunderstood, and hence there is a pressing need to clarify what Bayesian theories of cognition are all about.
3	bayesian	2007	Trejo, LJ; Knuth, K; Prado, R; Rosipal, R; Kubitz, K; Kochavi, R; Matthews, B; Zhang, Y	EEG-Based estimation of mental fatigue: Convergent evidence for a three-state model	FOUNDATIONS OF AUGMENTED COGNITION, PROCEEDINGS	Two new computational models show that the EEG distinguishes three distinct mental states ranging from alert to fatigue. State I indicates heightened alertness and is frequently present during the first few minutes of time on task. State 2 indicates normal alertness, often following and lasting longer than State 1. State 3 indicates fatigue, usually following State 2, but sometimes alternating with State I and State 2. Thirty-channel EEGs were recorded from 16 subjects who performed up to 180 min of nonstop computer-based mental arithmetic. Alert or fatigued states were independently confirmed with measures of subjects' performance and pre- or post-task mood. We found convergent evidence for a three-state model of fatigue using Bayesian analysis of two different types of EEG features, both computed for single 13-s EEG epochs: 1) kernel partial least squares scores representing composite multichannel power spectra; 2) amplitude and frequency parameters of multiple single-channel autoregressive models.
4	bayesian	2006	Lee, MD	A hierarchical Bayesian model of human decision-making on an optimal stopping problem	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We consider human performance on an optimal stopping problem where people are presented with a list of numbers independently chosen from a uniform distribution. People are told how many numbers are in the list, and how they were chosen. People are then shown the numbers one at a time, and are instructed to choose the maximum, subject to the constraint that they must choose a number at the time it is presented, and any choice below the maximum is incorrect. We present empirical evidence that suggests people use threshold-based models to make decisions, choosing the first currently maximal number that exceeds a fixed threshold for that position in the list. We then develop a hierarchical generative account of this model family, and use Bayesian methods to learn about the parameters of the generative process, making inferences about the threshold decision models people use. We discuss the interesting aspects of human performance on the task, including the lack of learning, and the presence of large individual differences, and consider the possibility of extending the modeling framework to account for individual differences. We also use the modeling results to discuss the merits of hierarchical, generative and Bayesian models of cognitive processes more generally.
5	bayesian	2015	Bruza, PD; Wang, Z; Busemeyer, JR	Quantum cognition: a new theoretical approach to psychology	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	What type of probability theory best describes the way humans make judgments under uncertainty and decisions under conflict? Although rational models of cognition have become prominent and have achieved much success, they adhere to the laws of classical probability theory despite the fact that human reasoning does not always conform to these laws. For this reason we have seen the recent emergence of models based on an alternative probabilistic framework drawn from quantum theory. These quantum models show promise in addressing cognitive phenomena that have proven recalcitrant to modeling by means of classical probability theory. This review compares and contrasts probabilistic models based on Bayesian or classical versus quantum principles, and highlights the advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
6	bayesian	2014	Ursino, M; Cuppini, C; Magosso, E	Neurocomputational approaches to modelling multisensory integration in the brain: A review	NEURAL NETWORKS	The Brain's ability to integrate information from different modalities (multisensory integration) is fundamental for accurate sensory experience and efficient interaction with the environment: it enhances detection of external stimuli, disambiguates conflict situations, speeds up responsiveness, facilitates processes of memory retrieval and object recognition. Multisensory integration operates at several brain levels: in subcortical structures (especially the Superior Colliculus), in higher-level associative cortices (e.g., posterior parietal regions), and even in early cortical areas (such as primary cortices) traditionally considered to be purely unisensory. Because of complex non-linear mechanisms of brain integrative phenomena, a key tool for their understanding is represented by neurocomputational models. This review examines different modelling principles and architectures, distinguishing the models on the basis of their aims: (i) Bayesian models based on probabilities and realizing optimal estimator of external cues; (ii) biologically inspired models of multisensory integration in the Superior Colliculus and in the Cortex, both at level of single neuron and network of neurons, with emphasis on physiological mechanisms and architectural schemes; among the latter, some models exhibit synaptic plasticity and reproduce development of integrative capabilities via Hebbian-learning rules or self-organizing maps; (iii) models of semantic memory that implement object meaning as a fusion between sensory motor features (embodied cognition). This overview paves the way to future challenges, such as reconciling neurophysiological and Bayesian models into a unifying theory, and stimulates upcoming research in both theoretical and applicative domains. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
7	bayesian	2011	Chambon, V; Pacherie, E; Barbalat, G; Jacquet, P; Franck, N; Farrer, C	Mentalizing under influence: abnormal dependence on prior expectations in patients with schizophrenia	BRAIN	An impaired ability to appreciate other people's mental states is a well-established and stable cognitive deficit in schizophrenia, which might explain some aspects of patients' social dysfunction. Yet, despite a wealth of literature on this topic, the basic mechanisms underlying these impairments are still poorly understood, and their links with the clinical dimensions of schizophrenia remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the extent to which patients' impaired ability to appreciate other people's intentions (known as mentalizing) may be accounted for by abnormal interaction between the two types of information that contribute to this ability: (i) the sensory evidence conveyed by movement kinematics; and (ii) the observer's prior expectations. We hypothesized that this is not a generalized impairment, but one confined to certain types of intentions. To test this assumption, we designed four tasks in which participants were required to infer either: (i) basic intentions (i.e. the simple goal of a motor act); (ii) superordinate intentions (i.e. the general goal of a sequence of motor acts); (iii) social basic; or (iv) social superordinate intentions (i.e. simple or general goals achieved within the context of a reciprocal interaction). In each of these tasks, both prior expectations and sensory information were manipulated. We found that patients correctly inferred non-social, basic intentions, but experienced difficulties when inferring non-social superordinate intentions and both basic and superordinate social intentions. These poor performances were associated with two abnormal patterns of interaction between prior expectations and sensory evidence. In the non-social superordinate condition, patients relied heavily on their prior expectations, while disregarding sensory evidence. This pattern of interaction predicted the severity of 'positive' symptoms. Social conditions prompted exactly the opposite pattern of interaction: patients exhibited weaker dependence on prior expectations while relying strongly on sensory evidence, and this predicted the severity of 'negative' symptoms. We suggest both these patterns can be accounted for by a disturbance in the Bayesian inferential mechanism that integrates sensory evidence (conveyed by movement kinematics) into prior beliefs (about others' mental states and attitudes) to produce accurate inferences about other people's intentions.
8	bayesian	2010	Craigmile, PF; Peruggia, M; Van Zandt, T	Hierarchical Bayes Models for Response Time Data	PSYCHOMETRIKA	Human response time (RT) data are widely used in experimental psychology to evaluate theories of mental processing. Typically, the data constitute the times taken by a subject to react to a succession of stimuli under varying experimental conditions. Because of the sequential nature of the experiments there are trends (due to learning, fatigue, fluctuations in attentional state, etc.) and serial dependencies in the data. The data also exhibit extreme observations that can be attributed to lapses, intrusions from outside the experiment, and errors occurring during the experiment. Any adequate analysis should account for these features and quantify them accurately. Recognizing that Bayesian hierarchical models are an excellent modeling tool, we focus on the elaboration of a realistic likelihood for the data and on a careful assessment of the quality of fit that it provides. We judge quality of fit in terms of the predictive performance of the model. We demonstrate how simple Bayesian hierarchical models can be built for several RT sequences, differentiating between subject-specific and condition-specific effects.
9	bayesian	2010	Chater, N; Oaksford, M; Hahn, U; Heit, E	Bayesian models of cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There has been a recent explosion in research applying Bayesian models to cognitive phenomena. This development has resulted from the realization that across a wide variety of tasks the fundamental problem the cognitive system confronts is coping with uncertainty. From visual scene recognition to on-line language comprehension, from categorizing stimuli to determining to what degree an argument is convincing, people must deal with the incompleteness of the information they possess to perform these tasks, many of which have important survival-related consequences. This paper provides a review of Bayesian models of cognition, dividing them up by the different aspects of cognition to which they have been applied. The paper begins with a brief review of Bayesian inference. This falls short of a full technical introduction but the reader is referred to the relevant literature for further details. There follows reviews of Bayesian models in Perception, Categorization, Learning and Causality, Language Processing, Inductive Reasoning, Deductive Reasoning, and Argumentation. In all these areas, it is argued that sophisticated Bayesian models are enhancing our understanding of the underlying cognitive computations involved. It is concluded that a major challenge is to extend the evidential basis for these models, especially to accounts of higher level cognition. (C) 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. WIREs Cogn Sci 2010 1 811-823
10	bayesian	2009	Spelke, ES; Kinzler, KD	Innateness, Learning, and Rationality	CHILD DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVES	J. P. Spencer et al. (2009) ask readers to reject the nativist-empiricist dialogue and adopt a new theoretical perspective on cognition, focusing on "developmental process." This commentary argues that the dialogue between nativism and empiricism is a rich source of insight into the nature and development of human knowledge. Indeed, the dialogue is entering a new and exciting phase, in which new methods of controlled rearing and of cognitive neuroscience, and new conceptual tools for understanding learning, allow exploration of how human concepts emerge through the interaction of innate cognitive structures shaped by natural selection, with statistical learning processes shaped by specific encounters with the world. This approach fosters new, interdisciplinary research that promises to increase dramatically understanding of human knowledge.
11	bayesian	2008	Temperley, D	A probabilistic model of melody perception	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study presents a probabilistic model of melody perception, which infers the key of a melody and also judges the probability of the melody itself. The model uses Bayesian reasoning: For any "surface" pattern and underlying "structure," we can infer the structure maximizing P(structure I surface) based on knowledge of P(surface, structure). The probability of the surface can then be calculated as Sigma P(surface, structure), summed over all structures. In this case, the surface is a pattern of notes; the structure is a key. A generative model is proposed, based on three principles: (a) melodies tend to remain within a narrow pitch range; (b) note-to-note intervals within a melody tend to be small; and (c) notes tend to conform to a distribution (or key profile) that depends on the key. The model is tested in three ways. First, it is tested on its ability to identify the keys of a set of folksong melodies. Second, it is tested on a melodic expectation task in which it must judge the probability of different notes occurring given a prior context; these judgments are compared with perception data from a melodic expectation experiment. Finally, the model is tested on its ability to detect incorrect notes in melodies by assigning them lower probabilities than the original versions.
12	bayesian	2008	Morey, RD; Rouder, JN; Speckman, PL	A statistical model for discriminating between subliminal and near-liminal performance	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The concept of a psychophysical threshold is foundational in perceptual psychology. In practice, thresholds are operationalized as stimulus values that lead to a fairly high level of performance such as .75 or .707 in two-choice tasks. These operationalizations are not useful for assessing subliminality-the state in which a stimulus is so weak that performance is at chance. We present a hierarchical Bayesian model of performance that incorporates a threshold that divides subliminal from near-liminal performance. The model provides a convenient means to measure at-chance thresholds and therefore is useful for testing theories of subliminal priming. The hierarchical nature of the model is critical for efficient analysis as strength is pooled across people and stimulus values. A comparison to Rasch psychometric models is provided. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
13	bayesian	2008	Lee, MD; Vanpaemel, W	Exemplars, Prototypes, Similarities, and Rules in Category Representation: An Example of Hierarchical Bayesian Analysis	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article demonstrates the potential of using hierarchical Bayesian methods to relate models and data in the cognitive sciences. This is done using a worked example that considers an existing model of category representation, the Varying Abstraction Model (VAM), which attempts to infer the representations people use from their behavior in category learning tasks. The VAM allows for a wide variety of category representations to be inferred, but this article shows how a hierarchical Bayesian analysis can provide a unifying explanation of the representational possibilities using 2 parameters. One parameter controls the emphasis on abstraction in category representations, and the other controls the emphasis on similarity. Using 30 previously published data sets, this work shows how inferences about these parameters, and about the category representations they generate, can be used to evaluate data in terms of the ongoing exemplar versus prototype and similarity versus rules debates in the literature. Using this concrete example, this article emphasizes the advantages of hierarchical Bayesian models in converting model selection problems to parameter estimation problems, and providing one way of specifying theoretically based priors for competing models.
14	bayesian	2014	Karr, JE; Areshenkoff, CN; Duggan, EC; Garcia-Barrera, MA	Blast-Related Mild Traumatic Brain Injury: A Bayesian Random-Effects Meta-Analysis on the Cognitive Outcomes of Concussion among Military Personnel	NEUROPSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Throughout their careers, many soldiers experience repeated blasts exposures from improvised explosive devices, which often involve head injury. Consequentially, blast-related mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI) has become prevalent in modern conflicts, often occuring co-morbidly with psychiatric illness (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder [PTSD]). In turn, a growing body of research has begun to explore the cognitive and psychiatric sequelae of blast-related mTBI. The current meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the chronic effects of blast-related mTBI on cognitive performance. A systematic review identified 9 studies reporting 12 samples meeting eligibility criteria. A Bayesian random-effects meta-analysis was conducted with cognitive construct and PTSD symptoms explored as moderators. The overall posterior mean effect size and Highest Density Interval (HDI) came to d = -0.12 [-0.21, -0.04], with executive function (-0.16 [-0.31, 0.00]), verbal delayed memory (-0.19 [-0.44, 0.06]) and processing speed (-0.11 [-0.26, 0.01]) presenting as the most sensitive cognitive domains to blast-related mTBI. When dividing executive function into diverse sub-constructs (i.e., working memory, inhibition, set-shifting), set-shifting presented the largest effect size (-0.33 [-0.55, -0.05]). PTSD symptoms did not predict cognitive effects sizes, beta (PTSD) = -0.02 [-0.23, 0.20]. The results indicate a subtle, but chronic cognitive impairment following mTBI, especially in set-shifting, a relevant aspect of executive attention. These findings are consistent with past meta-analyses on multiple mTBI and correspond with past neuroimaging research on the cognitive correlates of white matter damage common in mTBI. However, all studies had cross-sectional designs, which resulted in universally low quality ratings and limited the conclusions inferable from this meta-analysis.
15	bayesian	2004	Temperley, D	Bayesian models of musical structure and cognition	MUSICAE SCIENTIAE	This paper explores the application of Bayesian probabilistic modeling to issues of music cognition and music theory. The main concern is with the problem of key-finding: the process of inferring the key from a pattern of notes. The Bayesian perspective leads to a simple, elegant, and highly effective model of this process; the same approach can also be extended to other aspects of music perception, such as metrical structure and melodic structure. Bayesian modeling also relates in interesting ways to a number of other musical issues, including musical tension, ambiguity, expectation, and the quantitative description of styles and stylistic differences.
16	bayesian	2004	Szymanski, BK; Zhang, YQ	Recursive data mining for masquerade detection and author identification	PROCEEDINGS FROM THE FIFTH IEEE SYSTEMS, MAN AND CYBERNETICS INFORMATION ASSURANCE WORKSHOP	In this paper, a novel recursive data mining method based on the simple but powerful model of cognition called a conceptor is introduced and applied to computer security. The method recursively mines a string of symbols by finding frequent patterns, encoding them with unique symbols and rewriting the string using this new coding. We apply this technique to two related but important problems in computer security: (i) masquerade defection to prevent a security attack in which an intruder impersonates a legitimate user to gain access to the resources, and (U) author identification, in which anonymous or disputed computer session needs to be attributed to one of a set of potential authors. Many methods based on automata theory, Hidden Markov Models, Bayesian models or even matching algorithms from bioinformatics have been proposed to solve the masquerading detection problem but less work has been done on the author identification. We used recursive data mining to characterize the structure and high-level symbols in user signatures and the monitored sessions. We used one-class SVM to measure the similarity of these two characterizations. We applied weighting prediction scheme to author identification. On the SEA dataset that we used in our experiments, the results were very promising.
17	bayesian	2015	Hoffman, DD; Singh, M; Prakash, C	The Interface Theory of Perception	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Perception is a product of evolution. Our perceptual systems, like our limbs and livers, have been shaped by natural selection. The effects of selection on perception can be studied using evolutionary games and genetic algorithms. To this end, we define and classify perceptual strategies and allow them to compete in evolutionary games in a variety of worlds with a variety of fitness functions. We find that veridical perceptions-strategies tuned to the true structure of the world-are routinely dominated by nonveridical strategies tuned to fitness. Veridical perceptions escape extinction only if fitness varies monotonically with truth. Thus, a perceptual strategy favored by selection is best thought of not as a window on truth but as akin to a windows interface of a PC. Just as the color and shape of an icon for a text file do not entail that the text file itself has a color or shape, so also our perceptions of space-time and objects do not entail (by the Invention of Space-Time Theorem) that objective reality has the structure of space-time and objects. An interface serves to guide useful actions, not to resemble truth. Indeed, an interface hides the truth; for someone editing a paper or photo, seeing transistors and firmware is an irrelevant hindrance. For the perceptions of H. sapiens, space-time is the desktop and physical objects are the icons. Our perceptions of space-time and objects have been shaped by natural selection to hide the truth and guide adaptive behaviors. Perception is an adaptive interface.
18	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD; Sarnecka, BW	Number-knower levels in young children: Insights from Bayesian modeling	COGNITION	Lee and Sarnecka (2010) developed a Bayesian model of young children's behavior on the Give-N test of number knowledge. This paper presents two new extensions of the model, and applies the model to new data. In the first extension, the model is used to evaluate competing theories about the conceptual knowledge underlying children's behavior. One, the knower-levels theory, is basically a "stage" theory involving real conceptual change. The other, the approximate-meanings theory, assumes that the child's conceptual knowledge is relatively constant, although performance improves over time. In the second extension, the model is used to ask whether the same latent psychological variable (a child's number-knower level) can simultaneously account for behavior on two tasks (the Give-N task and the Fast-Cards task) with different performance demands. Together, these two demonstrations show the potential of the Bayesian modeling approach to improve our understanding of the development of human cognition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
19	bayesian	2008	Lee, MD	BayesSDT: Software for Bayesian inference with signal detection theory	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS	This article describes and demonstrates the BayesSDT MATLAB-based software package for performing Bayesian analysis with equal-variance Gaussian signal detection theory (SDT). The software uses WinBUGS to draw samples from the posterior distribution of six SDT parameters: discriminability, hit rate, false alarm rate, criterion, and two alternative measures of bias. The software either provides a simple NIATLAB graphical user interface or allows a more general MATLAB function call to produce graphs of the posterior distribution for each parameter of interest for each data set, as well as to return the full set of posterior samples.
20	bayesian	2016	Tsvetanov, KA; Henson, RNA; Tyler, LK; Razi, A; Geerligs, L; Ham, TE; Rowe, JB	Extrinsic and Intrinsic Brain Network Connectivity Maintains Cognition across the Lifespan Despite Accelerated Decay of Regional Brain Activation	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	The maintenance of wellbeing across the lifespan depends on the preservation of cognitive function. Wepropose that successful cognitive aging is determined by interactions both within and between large-scale functional brain networks. Such connectivity can be estimated from task-free functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), also known as resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI). However, common correlational methods are confounded by age-related changes in the neurovascular signaling. To estimate network interactions at the neuronal rather than vascular level, we used generative models that specified both the neural interactions and a flexible neurovascular forward model. The networks' parameters were optimized to explain the spectral dynamics of rs-fMRI data in 602 healthy human adults from population-based cohorts who were approximately uniformly distributed between 18 and 88 years (www.cam-can.com). We assessed directed connectivity within and between three key large-scale networks: the salience network, dorsal attention network, and default mode network. We found that age influences connectivity both within and between these networks, over and above the effects on neurovascular coupling. Canonical correlation analysis revealed that the relationship between network connectivity and cognitive function was age-dependent: cognitive performance relied on neural dynamics more strongly in older adults. These effects were driven partly by reduced stability of neural activity within all networks, as expressed by an accelerated decay of neural information. Our findings suggest that the balance of excitatory connectivity between networks, and the stability of intrinsic neural representations within networks, changes with age. The cognitive function of older adults becomes increasingly dependent on these factors.
21	bayesian	2010	Vul, E; Bergsma, J; MacLeod, DIA	Functional Adaptive Sequential Testing	SEEING AND PERCEIVING	The study of cognition, perception, and behavior often requires the estimation of thresholds as a function of continuous independent variables (e.g., contrast threshold as a function of spatial frequency, subjective value as a function of reward delay, tracking speed as a function of the number of objects tracked). Unidimensional adaptive testing methods make estimation of single threshold values faster and more efficient, but substantial efficiency can be further gained by taking into account the relationship between thresholds at different values of an independent variable. Here we present a generic method functional adaptive sequential testing (FAST) for estimating thresholds as a function of another variable. This method allows efficient estimation of parameters relating an independent variable (e.g., stimulus spatial frequency; or reward delay) to the measured threshold along a stimulus strength dimension (e.g., contrast; or present monetary value). We formally describe the FAST algorithm and introduce a Matlab toolbox implementation thereof; we then evaluate several possible sampling and estimation algorithms for such two-dimensional functions. Our results demonstrate that efficiency can be substantially increased by considering the functional relationship between thresholds at different values of the independent variable of interest. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden, 2010
22	bayesian	2009	Corlett, PR; Simons, JS; Pigott, JS; Gardner, JM; Murray, GK; Krystal, JH; Fletcher, PC	Illusions and delusions: relating experimentally-induced false memories to anomalous experiences and ideas	FRONTIERS IN BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The salience hypothesis of psychosis rests on a simple but profound observation that subtle alterations in the way that we perceive and experience stimuli have important consequences for how important these stimuli become for us, how much they draw our attention, how they embed themselves in our memory and, ultimately, how they shape our beliefs. We put forward the idea that a classical memory illusion - the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) effect - offers a useful way of exploring processes related to such aberrant belief formation. The illusion occurs when, as a consequence of its relationship to previous stimuli, a stimulus that has not previously been presented is falsely remembered. Such illusory familiarity is thought to be generated by the surprising fluency with which the stimulus is processed. In this respect, the illusion relates directly to the salience hypothesis and may share common cognitive underpinnings with aberrations of perception and attribution that are found in psychosis. In this paper, we explore the theoretical importance of this experimentally-induced illusion in relation to the salience model of psychosis. We present data showing that, in healthy volunteers, the illusion relates directly to self reported anomalies of experience and magical thinking. We discuss this finding in terms of the salience hypothesis and of a broader Bayesian framework of perception and cognition which emphasizes the salience both of predictable and unpredictable experiences.
23	bayesian	2007	Shultz, TR	The Bayesian revolution approaches psychological development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	This commentary reviews five articles that apply Bayesian ideas to psychological development, some with psychology experiments, some with computational modeling, and some with both experiments and modeling. The reviewed work extends the current Bayesian revolution into tasks often studied in children, such as causal learning and word learning, and provides evidence that children's performance can be optimal in a Bayesian sense. There remains much to be done in terms of understanding how representations are created, how development occurs, how Bayesian computation might be neurally implemented, and in reconciling the new work with older evidence that even skilled adults are incompetent Bayesians.
24	bayesian	2015	Wells, GL; Smalarz, L; Smith, AM	ROC analysis of lineups does not measure underlying discriminability and has limited value	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Some researchers have been arguing that eyewitness identification data from lineups should be analyzed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis because it purportedly measures underlying discriminability. But ROC analysis, which was designed for 2 x 2 tasks, does not fit the 3 x 2 structure of lineups. Accordingly, ROC proponents force lineup data into a 2 x 2 structure by treating false-positive identifications of lineup fillers as though they were rejections. Using data from lineups versus showups, we illustrate how this approach misfires as a measure of underlying discriminability. Moreover, treating false-positive identifications of fillers as if they were rejections hides one of the most important phenomena in eyewitness lineups, namely filler siphoning. Filler siphoning reduces the risk of mistaken identification by drawing false-positive identifications away from the innocent suspect and onto lineup fillers. We show that ROC analysis confuses filler siphoning with an improvement in underlying discriminability, thereby fostering misleading theoretical conclusions about how lineups work. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
25	bayesian	2015	Moulin-Frier, C; Diard, J; Schwartz, JL; Bessiere, P	COSMO ("Communicating about Objects using Sensory-Motor Operations"): A Bayesian modeling framework for studying speech communication and the emergence of phonological systems	JOURNAL OF PHONETICS	While the origin of language remains a somewhat mysterious process, understanding how human language takes specific forms appears to be accessible by the experimental method. Languages, despite their wide variety, display obvious regularities. In this paper, we attempt to derive some properties of phonological systems (the sound systems for human languages) from speech communication principles. We introduce a model of the cognitive architecture of a communicating agent, called COSMO (for "Communicating about Objects using Sensory-Motor Operations') that allows a probabilistic expression of the main theoretical trends found in the speech production and perception literature. This enables a computational comparison of these theoretical trends, which helps us to identify the conditions that favor the emergence of linguistic codes. We present realistic simulations of phonological system emergence showing that COSMO is able to predict the main regularities in vowel, stop consonant and syllable systems in human languages. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
26	bayesian	2015	Oikkonen, J; Huang, Y; Onkamo, P; Ukkola-Vuoti, L; Raijas, P; Karma, K; Vieland, VJ; Jarvela, I	A genome-wide linkage and association study of musical aptitude identifies loci containing genes related to inner ear development and neurocognitive functions	MOLECULAR PSYCHIATRY	Humans have developed the perception, production and processing of sounds into the art of music. A genetic contribution to these skills of musical aptitude has long been suggested. We performed a genome-wide scan in 76 pedigrees (767 individuals) characterized for the ability to discriminate pitch (SP), duration (ST) and sound patterns (KMT), which are primary capacities for music perception. Using the Bayesian linkage and association approach implemented in program package KELVIN, especially designed for complex pedigrees, several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near genes affecting the functions of the auditory pathway and neurocognitive processes were identified. The strongest association was found at 3q21.3 (rs9854612) with combined SP, ST and KMT test scores (COMB). This region is located a few dozen kilobases upstream of the GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) gene. GATA2 regulates the development of cochlear hair cells and the inferior colliculus (IC), which are important in tonotopic mapping. The highest probability of linkage was obtained for phenotype SP at 4p14, located next to the region harboring the protocadherin 7 gene, PCDH7. Two SNPs rs13146789 and rs13109270 of PCDH7 showed strong association. PCDH7 has been suggested to play a role in cochlear and amygdaloid complexes. Functional class analysis showed that inner ear and schizophreniarelated genes were enriched inside the linked regions. This study is the first to show the importance of auditory pathway genes in musical aptitude.
27	bayesian	2014	Bonawitz, E; Denison, S; Gopnik, A; Griffiths, TL	Win-Stay, Lose-Sample: A simple sequential algorithm for approximating Bayesian inference	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	People can behave in a way that is consistent with Bayesian models of cognition, despite the fact that performing exact Bayesian inference is computationally challenging. What algorithms could people be using to make this possible? We show that a simple sequential algorithm "Win-Stay, Lose-Sample", inspired by the Win-Stay, Lose-Shift (WSLS) principle, can be used to approximate Bayesian inference. We investigate the behavior of adults and preschoolers on two causal learning tasks to test whether people might use a similar algorithm. These studies use a "mini-microgenetic method", investigating how people sequentially update their beliefs as they encounter new evidence. Experiment 1 investigates a deterministic causal learning scenario and Experiments 2 and 3 examine how people make inferences in a stochastic scenario. The behavior of adults and preschoolers in these experiments is consistent with our Bayesian version of the WSLS principle. This algorithm provides both a practical method for performing Bayesian inference and a new way to understand people's judgments. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
28	bayesian	2014	Boogert, NJ; Nightingale, GF; Hoppitt, W; Laland, KN	Perching but not foraging networks predict the spread of novel foraging skills in starlings	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	The directed social learning hypothesis suggests that information does not spread evenly through animal groups, but rather individual characteristics and patterns of physical proximity guide the social transmission of information along specific pathways. Network-based diffusion analysis (NBDA) allows researchers to test whether information spreads following a social network. However, the explanatory power of different social networks has rarely been compared, and current models do not easily accommodate random effects (e.g. allowing for individuals within groups to correlate in their asocial solving rates). We tested whether the spread of two novel foraging skills through captive starling groups was affected by individual- and group-level random and fixed effects (i.e. sex, age, body condition, dominance rank and demonstrator status) and perching or foraging networks. We extended NBDA to include random effects and conducted model discrimination in a Bayesian context. We found that social learning increased the rate at which birds acquired the novel foraging task solutions by 6.67 times, and acquiring one of the two novel foraging task solutions facilitated the asocial acquisition of the other. Surprisingly, the spread of task solutions followed the perching rather than the foraging social network. Upon acquiring a task solution, foraging performance was facilitated by the presence of group mates. Our results highlight the importance of considering more than one social network when predicting the spread of information through animal groups. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Cognition in the wild. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
29	bayesian	2014	Bartlema, A; Lee, M; Wetzels, R; Vanpaemel, W	A Bayesian hierarchical mixture approach to individual differences: Case studies in selective attention and representation in category learning	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We demonstrate the potential of using a Bayesian hierarchical mixture approach to model individual differences in cognition. Mixture components can be used to identify latent groups of subjects who use different cognitive processes, while hierarchical distributions can be used to capture more minor variation within each group. We apply Bayesian hierarchical mixture methods in two illustrative applications involving category learning. One focuses on a problem that is typically conceived of as a problem of parameter estimation, while the other focuses on a problem that is traditionally tackled from a model selection perspective. Using both previously published and newly collected data, we demonstrate the flexibility and wide applicability of the hierarchical mixture approach to modeling individual differences. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
30	bayesian	2012	Navarro, DJ; Dry, MJ; Lee, MD	Sampling Assumptions in Inductive Generalization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Inductive generalization, where people go beyond the data provided, is a basic cognitive capability, and it underpins theoretical accounts of learning, categorization, and decision making. To complete the inductive leap needed for generalization, people must make a key sampling assumption about how the available data were generated. Previous models have considered two extreme possibilities, known as strong and weak sampling. In strong sampling, data are assumed to have been deliberately generated as positive examples of a concept, whereas in weak sampling, data are assumed to have been generated without any restrictions. We develop a more general account of sampling that allows for an intermediate mixture of these two extremes, and we test its usefulness. In two experiments, we show that most people complete simple one-dimensional generalization tasks in a way that is consistent with their believing in some mixture of strong and weak sampling, but that there are large individual differences in the relative emphasis different people give to each type of sampling. We also show experimentally that the relative emphasis of the mixture is influenced by the structure of the available information. We discuss the psychological meaning of mixing strong and weak sampling, and possible extensions of our modeling approach to richer problems of inductive generalization.
31	bayesian	2011	Anh, HT; Pereira, LM; Santos, FC	Intention recognition promotes the emergence of cooperation	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Few problems have created the combined interest of so many unrelated areas as the evolution of cooperation. As a result, several mechanisms have been identified to work as catalyzers of cooperative behavior. Yet, these studies, mostly grounded on evolutionary dynamics and game theory, have neglected the important role played by intention recognition in behavioral evolution. Here we address explicitly this issue, characterizing the dynamics emerging from a population of intention recognizers. We derive a Bayesian network model for intention recognition in the context of repeated social dilemmas and evolutionary game theory, by assessing the internal dynamics of trust between intention recognizers and their opponents. Intention recognizers are then able to predict the next move of their opponents based on past direct interactions, which, in turn, enables them to prevail over the most famous strategies of repeated dilemmas of cooperation, even in presence of noise. Overall, our framework offers new insights on the complexity and beauty of behavioral evolution driven by elementary forms of cognition.
32	bayesian	2003	Lee, MD; Pope, KJ	Avoiding the dangers of averaging across subjects when using multidimensional scaling	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Ashby, Maddox and Lee (Psychological Science, 5 (3) 144) argue that it can be inappropriate to fit multidimensional scaling (MDS) models to similarity or dissimilarity data that have been averaged across subjects. They demonstrate that the averaging process tends to make dissimilarity data more amenable to metric representations, and conduct a simulation study showing that noisy data generated using one distance metric, when averaged, may be better fit using a different distance metric. This paper argues that a Bayesian measure of MDS models has the potential to address these difficulties, because it takes into account data-fit, the number of dimensions used by an MDS representation, and the precision of the data. A method of analysis based on the Bayesian measure is demonstrated through two simulation studies with accompanying theoretical analysis. In the first study, it is shown that the Bayesian analysis rejects those MDS models showing better fit to averaged data using the incorrect distance metric, while accepting those that use the correct metric. In the second study, different groups of simulated 'subjects' are assumed to use different underlying configurations. In this case, the Bayesian analysis rejects MDS representations where a significant proportion of subjects use different configurations, or when their dissimilarity judgments contain significant amounts of noise. It is concluded that the Bayesian analysis provides a simple and principled means for systematically accepting and rejecting MDS models derived from averaged data. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
33	bayesian	2016	Sevgi, M; Diaconescu, AO; Tittgemeyer, M; Schilbach, L	Social Bayes: Using Bayesian Modeling to Study Autistic Trait-Related Differences in Social Cognition	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	BACKGROUND: Autism is characterized by impairments of social interaction, but the underlying subpersonal processes are still a matter of controversy. It has been suggested that the autistic spectrum might be characterized by alterations of the brain's inference on the causes of socially relevant signals. However, it is unclear at what level of processing such trait-related alterations may occur. METHODS: We used a reward-based learning task that requires the integration of nonsocial and social cues in conjunction with computational modeling. Healthy subjects (N = 36) were selected based on their Autism Quotient Spectrum (AQ) score, and AQ scores were assessed for correlations with model parameters and task scores. RESULTS: Individual differences in AQ were inversely correlated with participants' task scores (r = -.39, 95% confidence interval [CI] [-.68, -.13]). Moreover, AQ scores were significantly correlated with a social weighting parameter that indicated how strongly the decision was influenced by the social cue (r = -.42, 95% CI [-.66, -.19]), but not with other model parameters. Also, more pronounced social weighting was related to higher scores (r = .50, 95% CI [.20, .86]). CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that higher autistic traits in healthy subjects are related to lower scores in a learning task that requires social cue integration. Computational modeling further demonstrates that these trait-related performance differences are not explained by an inability to process the social stimuli and its causes, but rather by the extent to which participants take into account social information during decision making.
34	bayesian	2016	Cook, J; Lewandowsky, S	Rational Irrationality: Modeling Climate Change Belief Polarization Using Bayesian Networks	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Belief polarization is said to occur when two people respond to the same evidence by updating their beliefs in opposite directions. This response is considered to be irrational because it involves contrary updating, a form of belief updating that appears to violate normatively optimal responding, as for example dictated by Bayes' theorem. In light of much evidence that people are capable of normatively optimal behavior, belief polarization presents a puzzling exception. We show that Bayesian networks, or Bayes nets, can simulate rational belief updating. When fit to experimental data, Bayes nets can help identify the factors that contribute to polarization. We present a study into belief updating concerning the reality of climate change in response to information about the scientific consensus on anthropogenic global warming (AGW). The study used representative samples of Australian and U.S. participants. Among Australians, consensus information partially neutralized the influence of worldview, with free-market supporters showing a greater increase in acceptance of human-caused global warming relative to free-market opponents. In contrast, while consensus information overall had a positive effect on perceived consensus among U.S. participants, there was a reduction in perceived consensus and acceptance of human-caused global warming for strong supporters of unregulated free markets. Fitting a Bayes net model to the data indicated that under a Bayesian framework, free-market support is a significant driver of beliefs about climate change and trust in climate scientists. Further, active distrust of climate scientists among a small number of U.S. conservatives drives contrary updating in response to consensus information among this particular group.
35	bayesian	2013	Holden, MP; Newcombe, NS; Shipley, TF	Location memory in the real world: Category adjustment effects in 3-dimensional space	COGNITION	The ability to remember spatial locations is critical to human functioning, both in an evolutionary and in an everyday sense. Yet spatial memories and judgments often show systematic errors and biases. Bias has been explained by models such as the Category Adjustment model (CAM), in which fine-grained and categorical information about locations are combined in a Bayesian manner (Huttenlocher, Hedges, & Duncan, 1991). However, experiments testing this model have largely used locations contained in simple geometric shapes and, more recently, 2D scenes. Do the results generalize to location memory in the complex natural world, as they should if the CAM is to provide an over-arching framework for thinking about spatial memory? Here, this issue is addressed using a novel extension of the location memory paradigm that allows for testing of location memory in an everyday, 3D environment. The results support two predictions of the CAM: that memory for locations is biased toward central values, and that the magnitude of error increases with the retention interval. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
36	bayesian	2012	Hornikx, J; Hahn, U	Reasoning and argumentation: Towards an integrated psychology of argumentation Introduction	THINKING & REASONING	Although argumentation plays an essential role in our lives, there is no integrated area of research on the psychology of argumentation. Instead research on argumentation is conducted in a number of separate research communities that are spread across disciplines and have only limited interaction. With a view to bridging these different strands, we first distinguish between three meanings of the word "argument": argument as a reason, argument as a structured sequence of reasons and claims, and argument as a social exchange. All three meanings are integral to a complete understanding of human reasoning and cognition. Cognitive psychological research on argumentation has focused mostly on the first and second of these meanings, so we present perspectives on argumentation from outside of cognitive psychology, which focus on the second and third. Specifically, we give an overview of the methods, goals, and disciplinary backgrounds of research on the production, the analysis, and the evaluation of arguments. Finally, in introducing the experimental studies included in this special issue, which were conducted by researchers from a range of theoretical backgrounds, we underline the breadth of argumentation research as well as stress opportunities for mutual awareness and integration.
37	bayesian	2012	Wan, J; Zhang, ZL; Yan, JW; Li, TY; Rao, BD; Fang, SAF; Kim, S; Risacher, SL; Saykin, AJ; Shen, L	Sparse Bayesian Multi-Task Learning for Predicting Cognitive Outcomes from Neuroimaging Measures in Alzheimer's Disease	2012 IEEE CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER VISION AND PATTERN RECOGNITION (CVPR)	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia that causes progressive impairment of memory and other cognitive functions. Multivariate regression models have been studied in AD for revealing relationships between neuroimaging measures and cognitive scores to understand how structural changes in brain can influence cognitive status. Existing regression methods, however, do not explicitly model dependence relation among multiple scores derived from a single cognitive test. It has been found that such dependence can deteriorate the performance of these methods. To overcome this limitation, we propose an efficient sparse Bayesian multi-task learning algorithm, which adaptively learns and exploits the dependence to achieve improved prediction performance. The proposed algorithm is applied to a real world neuroimaging study in AD to predict cognitive performance using MRI scans. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is demonstrated by its superior prediction performance over multiple state-of-the-art competing methods and accurate identification of compact sets of cognition-relevant imaging biomarkers that are consistent with prior knowledge.
38	bayesian	2011	Evans, S; Fleming, SM; Dolan, RJ; Averbeck, BB	Effects of Emotional Preferences on Value-based Decision-making Are Mediated by Mentalizing and Reward Networks	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Real-world decision-making often involves social considerations. Consequently, the social value of stimuli can induce preferences in choice behavior. However, it is unknown how financial and social values are integrated in the brain. Here, we investigated how smiling and angry face stimuli interacted with financial reward feedback in a stochastically rewarded decision-making task. Subjects reliably preferred the smiling faces despite equivalent reward feedback, demonstrating a socially driven bias. We fit a Bayesian reinforcement learning model to factor the effects of financial rewards and emotion preferences in individual subjects, and regressed model predictions on the trial-by-trial fMRI signal. Activity in the subcallosal cingulate and the ventral striatum, both involved in reward learning, correlated with financial reward feedback, whereas the differential contribution of social value activated dorsal temporo-parietal junction and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, previously proposed as components of a mentalizing network. We conclude that the impact of social stimuli on value-based decision processes is mediated by effects in brain regions partially separable from classical reward circuitry.
39	bayesian	2014	Schuwerk, T; Dohnel, K; Sodian, B; Keck, IR; Rupprecht, R; Sommer, M	Functional activity and effective connectivity of the posterior medial prefrontal cortex during processing of incongruent mental states	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	The neurocognitive components of Theory of Mind reasoning remain poorly understood. In particular the role of the posterior medial prefrontal cortex in the processing of other's mental states such as beliefs that are incongruent with one's own knowledge of reality is not clear-cut. It is unknown whether this region is involved in computing discrepant mental states or in subsequently resolving a response conflict between the discrepant others' and one's own beliefs. To test this, we adapted a false belief paradigm for the separate inspection of functional brain activity related to (1) the computation of diverging beliefs and (2) the subsequent consideration and selection of another's or one's own belief. Based on statistical parametric findings from functional neuroimaging, we employed dynamic causal modelling combined with Bayesian model selection to further characterize the interplay of resulting brain regions. In the initial computation of diverging beliefs, the posterior medial prefrontal cortex (pMPFC) and the bilateral temporoparietal cortex were crucially involved. The findings suggest that the bilateral temporal cortex engages in the construction and adjustment of diverging mental states by encoding relevant environmental information. The pMPFC inhibits this stimulus-bound processing which helps to compute discrepant mental states and process another's false belief decoupled from one's own perception of reality. In the subsequent question phase the right temporoparietal cortex showed increased activity related to switching to and reconsidering another's beliefs in order to select the correct response. Hum Brain Mapp 35:2950-2965, 2014. (c) 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
40	bayesian	2013	Weisberg, DS; Gopnik, A	Pretense, Counterfactuals, and Bayesian Causal Models: Why What Is Not Real Really Matters	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Young children spend a large portion of their time pretending about non-real situations. Why? We answer this question by using the framework of Bayesian causal models to argue that pretending and counterfactual reasoning engage the same component cognitive abilities: disengaging with current reality, making inferences about an alternative representation of reality, and keeping this representation separate from reality. In turn, according to causal models accounts, counterfactual reasoning is a crucial tool that children need to plan for the future and learn about the world. Both planning with causal models and learning about them require the ability to create false premises and generate conclusions from these premises. We argue that pretending allows children to practice these important cognitive skills. We also consider the prevalence of unrealistic scenarios in children's play and explain how they can be useful in learning, despite appearances to the contrary.
41	bayesian	2003	Feng, G	From eye movement to cognition: Toward a general framework of inference. Comment on Liechty et al., 2003	PSYCHOMETRIKA	Liechty, Pieters & Wedel (2003) developed a hidden Markov Model (HMM) to identify the states of an attentional process in an advertisement viewing task. This work is significant because it demonstrates the benefits of stochastic modeling and Bayesian estimation in making inferences about cognitive processes based on eye movement data. One limitation of the proposed approach is that attention is conceptualized as an autonomous random process that is affected neither by the overall layout of the Stimulus nor by the visual information perceived during the current fixation. An alternative model based on the input-output hidden Markov model (IOHMM: Bengio, 1999) is suggested as an extension of the HMM. The need for further studies that validate the HMM classification results is also discussed.
42	bayesian	2016	Csibra, G; Hernik, M; Mascaro, O; Tatone, D; Lengyel, M	Statistical Treatment of Looking-Time Data	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Looking times (LTs) are frequently measured in empirical research on infant cognition. We analyzed the statistical distribution of LTs across participants to develop recommendations for their treatment in infancy research. Our analyses focused on a common within-subject experimental design, in which longer looking to novel or unexpected stimuli is predicted. We analyzed data from 2 sources: an in-house set of LTs that included data from individual participants (47 experiments, 1,584 observations), and a representative set of published articles reporting group-level LT statistics (149 experiments from 33 articles). We established that LTs are log-normally distributed across participants, and therefore, should always be log-transformed before parametric statistical analyses. We estimated the typical size of significant effects in LT studies, which allowed us to make recommendations about setting sample sizes. We show how our estimate of the distribution of effect sizes of LT studies can be used to design experiments to be analyzed by Bayesian statistics, where the experimenter is required to determine in advance the predicted effect size rather than the sample size. We demonstrate the robustness of this method in both sets of LT experiments.
43	bayesian	2015	Johnson, ED; Tubau, E	Comprhension and computation in Bayesian problem solving	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Humans have long been characterized as poor probabilistic reasoners when presented with explicit numerical information. Bayesian word problems provide a well-known example of this, where even highly educated and cognitively skilled individuals fail to adhere to mathematical norms. It is widely agreed that natural frequencies can facilitate Bayesian inferences relative to normalized formats (e.g., probabilities, percentages), both by clarifying logical set-subset relations and by simplifying numerical calculations. Nevertheless, between-study performance on "transparent" Bayesian problems varies widely, and generally remains rather unimpressive. We suggest there has been an over-focus on this representational facilitator (i.e., transparent problem structures) at the expense of the specific logical and numerical processing requirements and the corresponding individual abilities and skills necessary for providing Bayesian-like output given specific verbal and numerical input. We further suggest that understanding this task-individual pair could benefit from considerations from the literature on mathematical cognition, which emphasizes text comprehension and problem solving, along with contributions of online executive working memory, metacognitive regulation, and relevant stored knowledge and skills. We conclude by offering avenues for future research aimed at identifying the stages in problem solving at which correct vs. incorrect reasoners depart, and how individual differences might influence this time point.
44	bayesian	2014	Kording, KP	Bayesian statistics: relevant for the brain?	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Analyzing data from experiments involves variables that we neuroscientists are uncertain about. Efficiently calculating with such variables usually requires Bayesian statistics. As it is crucial when analyzing complex data, it seems natural, that the brain would "use" such statistics to analyze data from the world. And indeed, recent studies in the areas of perception, action, and cognition suggest that Bayesian behavior is widespread, in many modalities and species. Consequently, many models have suggested that the brain is built on simple Bayesian principles. While the brain's code is probably not actually simple, I believe that Bayesian principles will facilitate the construction of faithful models of the brain.
45	bayesian	2013	Ames, DL; Fiske, ST	Outcome dependency alters the neural substrates of impression formation	NEUROIMAGE	How do people maintain consistent impressions of other people when other people are often inconsistent? The present research addresses this question by combining recent neuroscientific insights with ecologically meaningful behavioral methods. Participants formed impressions of real people whom they met in a personally involving situation. fMRI and supporting behavioral data revealed that outcome dependency (i.e., depending on another person for a desired outcome) alters previously identified neural dynamics of impression formation. Consistent with past research, a functional localizer identified a region of dorsomedial PFC previously linked to social impression formation. In the main task, this ROI revealed the predicted patterns of activity across outcome dependency conditions: greater BOLD response when information confirmed (vs. violated) social expectations if participants were outcome-independent and the reverse pattern if participants were outcome-dependent. We suggest that, although social perceivers often discount expectancy-disconfirming information as noise, being dependent on another person for a desired outcome focuses impression-formation processing on the most diagnostic information, rather than on the most tractable information. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
46	bayesian	2013	Kwisthout, J; van Rooij, I	Bridging the gap between theory and practice of approximate Bayesian inference	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	In computational cognitive science, many cognitive processes seem to be successfully modeled as Bayesian computations. Yet, many such Bayesian computations have been proven to be computationally intractable (NP-hard) for unconstrained input domains, even if only an approximate solution is sought. This computational complexity result seems to be in strong contrast with the ease and speed with which humans can typically make the inferences that are modeled by Bayesian models. This contrast-between theory and practice-poses a considerable theoretical challenge for computational cognitive modelers: How can intractable Bayesian computations be transformed into computationally plausible 'approximate' models of human cognition? In this paper, three candidate notions of 'approximation' are discussed, each of which has been suggested in the cognitive science literature. We will sketch how (parameterized) computational complexity analyses can yield model variants that are tractable and which can serve as the basis of computationally plausible models of cognition. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
47	bayesian	2013	Turner, BM; Dennis, S; Van Zandt, T	Likelihood-Free Bayesian Analysis of Memory Models	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Many influential memory models are computational in the sense that their predictions are derived through simulation. This means that it is difficult or impossible to write down a probability distribution or likelihood that characterizes the random behavior of the data as a function of the model's parameters. In turn, the lack of a likelihood means that these models cannot be directly fitted to data using traditional techniques. In particular, standard Bayesian analyses of such models are impossible. In this article, we examine how a new procedure called approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), a method for Bayesian analysis that circumvents the evaluation of the likelihood, can be used to fit computational models to memory data. In particular, we investigate the bind cue decide model of episodic memory (Dennis & Humphreys, 2001) and the retrieving effectively from memory model (Shiffrin & Steyvers, 1997). We fit hierarchical versions of each model to the data of Dennis, Lee, and Kinnell (2008) and Kinnell and Dennis (2012). The ABC analysis permits us to explore the relationships between the parameters in each model as well as evaluate their relative fits to data analyses that were not previously possible.
48	bayesian	2013	Kruschke, JK	Posterior predictive checks can and should be Bayesian: Comment on Gelman and Shalizi, Philosophy and the practice of Bayesian statistics'	BRITISH JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL & STATISTICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Bayesian inference is conditional on the space of models assumed by the analyst. The posterior distribution indicates only which of the available parameter values are less bad than the others, without indicating whether the best available parameter values really fit the data well. A posterior predictive check is important to assess whether the posterior predictions of the least bad parameters are discrepant from the actual data in systematic ways. Gelman and Shalizi (2012a) assert that the posterior predictive check, whether done qualitatively or quantitatively, is non-Bayesian. I suggest that the qualitative posterior predictive check might be Bayesian, and the quantitative posterior predictive check should be Bayesian. In particular, I show that the Bayesian p-value, from which an analyst attempts to reject a model without recourse to an alternative model, is ambiguous and inconclusive. Instead, the posterior predictive check, whether qualitative or quantitative, should be consummated with Bayesian estimation of an expanded model. The conclusion agrees with Gelman and Shalizi regarding the importance of the posterior predictive check for breaking out of an initially assumed space of models. Philosophically, the conclusion allows the liberation to be completely Bayesian instead of relying on a non-Bayesian deus ex machina. Practically, the conclusion cautions against use of the Bayesian p-value in favour of direct model expansion and Bayesian evaluation.
49	bayesian	2012	Lu, HJ; Chen, D; Holyoak, KJ	Bayesian Analogy With Relational Transformations	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	How can humans acquire relational representations that enable analogical inference and other forms of high-level reasoning? Using comparative relations as a model domain, we explore the possibility that bottom-up learning mechanisms applied to objects coded as feature vectors can yield representations of relations sufficient to solve analogy problems. We introduce Bayesian analogy with relational transformations (BART) and apply the model to the task of learning first-order comparative relations (e.g., larger, smaller, fiercer, meeker) from a set of animal pairs. Inputs are coded by vectors of continuous-valued features, based either on human magnitude ratings, normed feature ratings (De Deyne et al., 2008), or outputs of the topics model (Griffiths, Steyvers, & Tenenbaum, 2007). Bootstrapping from empirical priors, the model is able to induce first-order relations represented as probabilistic weight distributions, even when given positive examples only. These learned representations allow classification of novel instantiations of the relations and yield a symbolic distance effect of the sort obtained with both humans and other primates. BART then transforms its learned weight distributions by importance-guided mapping, thereby placing distinct dimensions into correspondence. These transformed representations allow BART to reliably solve 4-term analogies (e.g., larger:smaller:fiercer;meeker), a type of reasoning that is arguably specific to humans. Our results provide a proof-of-concept that structured analogies can be solved with representations induced from unstructured feature vectors by mechanisms that operate in a largely bottom-up fashion. We discuss potential implications for algorithmic and neural models of relational thinking, as well as for the evolution of abstract thought.
50	bayesian	2012	Vahia, IV; Thompson, WK; Depp, CA; Allison, M; Jeste, DV	Developing a dimensional model for successful cognitive and emotional aging	INTERNATIONAL PSYCHOGERIATRICS	Background: There is currently a lack of consensus on the definition of successful aging (SA) and existing implementations have omitted constructs associated with SA. We used empirical methods to develop a dimensional model of SA that incorporates a wider range of associated variables, and we examined the relationship among these components using factor analysis and Bayesian Belief Nets. Methods: We administered a successful aging questionnaire comprising several standardized measures related to SA to a sample of 1948 older women enrolled in the San Diego site of the Women's Health Initiative study. The SA-related variables we included in the model were self-rated successful aging, depression severity, physical and emotional functioning, optimism, resilience, attitude towards own aging, self-efficacy, and cognitive ability. After adjusting for age, education and income, we fitted an exploratory factor analysis model to the SA-related variables and then, in order to address relationships among these factors, we computed a Bayesian Belief Net (BBN) using rotated factor scores. Results: The SA-related variables loaded onto five factors. Based on the loading, we labeled the factors as follows: self-rated successful aging, cognition, psychosocial protective factors, physical functioning, and emotional functioning. In the BBN, self-rated successful aging emerged as the primary downstream factor and exhibited significant partial correlations with psychosocial protective factors, physical/general status and mental/emotional status but not with cognitive ability. Conclusions: Our study represents a step forward in developing a dimensional model of SA. Our findings also point to a potential role for psychiatry in improving successful aging by managing depressive symptoms and developing psychosocial interventions to improve self-efficacy, resilience, and optimism.
51	bayesian	2011	Lee, MD; Zhang, SN; Shi, J	The wisdom of the crowd playing The Price Is Right	MEMORY & COGNITION	In The Price Is Right game show, players compete to win a prize, by placing bids on its price. We ask whether it is possible to achieve a "wisdom of the crowd" effect, by combining the bids to produce an aggregate price estimate that is superior to the estimates of individual players. Using data from the game show, we show that a wisdom of the crowd effect is possible, especially by using models of the decision-making processes involved in bidding. The key insight is that, because of the competitive nature of the game, what people bid is not necessarily the same as what they know. This means better estimates are formed by aggregating latent knowledge than by aggregating observed bids. We use our results to highlight the usefulness of models of cognition and decision-making in studying the wisdom of the crowd, which are often approached only from non-psychological statistical perspectives.
52	bayesian	2015	Wixted, JT; Mickes, L	ROC analysis measures objective discriminability for any eyewitness identification procedure	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Which eyewitness identification procedure better enables eyewitnesses to discriminate between innocent and guilty suspects? In other words, which procedure better enables eyewitnesses to sort innocent and guilty suspects into their correct categories? The answer to that objective, theory-free question is what policymakers need to know, and it is precisely the information that ROC analysis provides. Wells et al. largely ignore that question and focus instead on whether ROC analysis accurately measures underlying (theoretical) discriminability for lineups. They argue that the apparent discriminability advantage for lineups over showups is an illusion caused by "filler siphoning." Here, we demonstrate that, both objectively and theoretically, the ability of eyewitnesses to discriminate innocent from guilty suspects is higher for lineups compared to showups, just as the ROC data suggest. Intuitions notwithstanding, filler siphoning does not account for the discriminability advantage for lineups. An actual theory of discriminability is needed to explain that interesting phenomenon. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
53	bayesian	2015	Cui, LB; Liu, J; Wang, LX; Li, C; Xi, YB; Guo, F; Wang, HN; Zhang, LC; Liu, WM; He, H; Tian, P; Yin, H; Lu, HB	Anterior cingulate cortex-related connectivity in first-episode schizophrenia: a spectral dynamic causal modeling study with functional magnetic resonance imaging	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Understanding the neural basis of schizophrenia (SZ) is important for shedding light on the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this mental disorder. Structural and functional alterations in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), hippocampus, and medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) have been implicated in the neurobiology of SZ. However, the effective connectivity among them in SZ remains unclear. The current study investigated how neuronal pathways involving these regions were affected in first-episode SZ using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Forty-nine patients with a first-episode of psychosis and diagnosis of SZ according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision were studied. Fifty healthy controls (HCs) were included for comparison. All subjects underwent resting state fMRI. We used spectral dynamic causal modeling (DCM) to estimate directed connections among the bilateral ACC, DLPFC, hippocampus, and MPFC. We characterized the differences using Bayesian parameter averaging (BPA) in addition to classical inference (t-test). In addition to common effective connectivity in these two groups, HCs displayed widespread significant connections predominantly involved in ACC not detected in SZ patients, but SZ showed few connections. Based on BPA results, SZ patients exhibited anterior cingulate cortico-prefrontal-hippocampal hyperconnectivity, as well as ACC-related and hippocampal-dorsolateral prefrontal-medial prefrontal hypoconnectivity. In summary, spectral DCM revealed the pattern of effective connectivity involving ACC in patients with first episode SZ. This study provides a potential link between SZ and dysfunction of ACC, creating an ideal situation to associate mechanisms behind SZ with aberrant connectivity among these cognition and emotion-related regions.
54	bayesian	2015	Nienborg, H; Roelfsema, PR	Belief states as a framework to explain extra-retinal influences in visual cortex	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROBIOLOGY	The activity of sensory neurons is modulated by non-sensory influences, but the role of these influences in cognition is only partially understood. Here we review how the large-scale recording of neuronal activity within and across brain regions allows researchers to examine the interactions between simultaneously recorded neurons as they are jointly influenced by fluctuations in an animal's mental state. We focus on studies on the visual cortex of non-human primates to examine the relationship between extra-retinal influences and beliefs about the state of the sensory world. We explore how these influences can be understood within theoretical frameworks that propose how the continuous updating of belief states supports perceptual inference.
55	bayesian	2014	Hahn, U	The Bayesian boom: good thing or bad?	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	A series of high-profile critiques of Bayesian models of cognition have recently sparked controversy. These critiques question the contribution of rational, normative considerations in the study of cognition. The present article takes central claims from these critiques and evaluates them in light of specific models. Closer consideration of actual examples of Bayesian treatments of different cognitive phenomena allows one to defuse these critiques showing that they cannot be sustained across the diversity of applications of the Bayesian framework for cognitive modeling. More generally, there is nothing in the Bayesian framework that would inherently give rise to the deficits that these critiques perceive, suggesting they have been framed at the wrong level of generality. At the same time, the examples are used to demonstrate the different ways in which consideration of rationality uniquely benefits both theory and practice in the study of cognition.
56	bayesian	2014	Moutoussis, M; Trujillo-Barreto, NJ; El-Deredy, W; Dolan, RJ; Friston, KJ	A formal model of interpersonal inference	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Introduction: We propose that active Bayesian inference-a general framework for decision-making-can equally be applied to interpersonal exchanges. Social cognition, however, entails special challenges. We address these challenges through a novel formulation of a formal model and demonstrate its psychological significance. Method: We review relevant literature, especially with regards to interpersonal representations, formulate a mathematical model and present a simulation study. The model accommodates normative models from utility theory and places them within the broader setting of Bayesian inference. Crucially, we endow people's prior beliefs, into which utilities are absorbed, with preferences of self and others. The simulation illustrates the model's dynamics and furnishes elementary predictions of the theory. Results: (1) Because beliefs about self and others inform both the desirability and plausibility of outcomes, in this framework interpersonal representations become beliefs that have to be actively inferred. This inference, akin to "mentalizing" in the psychological literature, is based upon the outcomes of interpersonal exchanges. (2) We show how some well-known social-psychological phenomena (e.g., self-serving biases) can be explained in terms of active interpersonal inference. (3) Mentalizing naturally entails Bayesian updating of how people value social outcomes. Crucially this includes inference about one's own qualities and preferences. Conclusion: We inaugurate a Bayes optimal framework for modeling intersubject variability in mentalizing during interpersonal exchanges. Here, interpersonal representations are endowed with explicit functional and affective properties. We suggest the active inference framework lends itself to the study of psychiatric conditions where mentalizing is distorted.
57	bayesian	2013	Theijssen, D; ten Bosch, L; Boves, L; Cranen, B; van Halteren, H	Choosing alternatives: Using Bayesian Networks and memory-based learning to study the dative alternation	CORPUS LINGUISTICS AND LINGUISTIC THEORY	In existing research on syntactic alternations such as the dative alternation, (give her the apple vs. give the apple to her), the linguistic data is often analysed with the help of logistic regression models. In this article, we evaluate the use of logistic regression for this type of research, and present two different approaches: Bayesian Networks and Memory-based learning. For the Bayesian Network, we use the higher-level semantic features suggested in the literature, while we limit ourselves to lexical items in the memory-based approach. We evaluate the suitability of the three approaches by applying them to a large data set (> 11,000 instances) extracted from the British National Corpus, and comparing their quality in terms of classification accuracy, their interpretability in the context of linguistic research, and their actual classification of individual cases. Our main finding is that the classifications are very similar across the three approaches, also when employing lexical items instead of the higher-level features, because most of the alternation is determined by the verb and the length of the two objects (here: her and the apple).
58	bayesian	2012	Curcic-Blake, B; Swart, M; Aleman, A	Bidirectional Information Flow in Frontoamygdalar Circuits in Humans: A Dynamic Causal Modeling Study of Emotional Associative Learning	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Everyday language is replete with descriptions of emotional events that people have experienced and wish to share with others. Such descriptions presumably rely on pairings of affective words and visual information (such as events and pictures) that have been learnt throughout one's development. To study this kind of affective language learning in the brain, we used functional neuroimaging during associative learning of emotional words and pictures. Brain imaging revealed increased activation of both primary emotional areas such as the amygdala and of higher cognitive areas such as the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and medial frontal gyrus. The dynamic causal modeling with Bayesian model selection suggested that the IFG first receives the input and that the connections are bidirectional, suggesting that during such emotional picture-word pair learning, the frontal cortex drives the amygdala activation. Specifically, the interaction between the frontal regions and the amygdala was enhanced by active learning involving both negative and positive emotional stimuli as compared with neutral stimuli. This circuit (especially for negative stimuli) converges with emotion regulation circuits. The enhancement in the connectivity might be responsible for the emotional memory effect in this type of learning.
59	bayesian	2011	Voorspoels, W; Vanpaemel, W; Storms, G	A formal ideal-based account of typicality	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Inspired by Barsalou's (Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 11, 629-654, 1985) proposal that categories can be represented by ideals, we develop and test a computational model, the ideal dimension model (IDM). The IDM is tested in its account of the typicality gradient for 11 superordinate natural language concepts and, using Bayesian model evaluation, contrasted with a standard exemplar model and a central prototypemodel. The IDMis found to capture typicality better than do the exemplar model and the central tendency prototype model, in terms of both goodness of fit and generalizability. The present findings challenge the dominant view that exemplar representations are most successful and present compelling evidence that superordinate natural language categories can be represented using an abstract summary, in the form of ideal representations. Supplemental appendices for this article can be downloaded from http://mc.psychonomic-journals.org/content/supplemental.
60	bayesian	2010	Neufeld, RWJ; Boksman, K; Vollick, D; George, L; Carter, JR	Stochastic dynamics of stimulus encoding in schizophrenia: Theory, testing, and application	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Cognitive processing processing among schizophrenia participants, entailing encoding of presenting stimulation into a format facilitating collateral processes (e.g., memory search), is examined in light of stochastic mathematical models of performance. Results implicate additional encoding operations (encoding subprocesses) as the source of schizophrenia encoding-process elongation. Convergent evidence for this inference, including that from auxiliary neuro-connectionist simulations, are brought forth. Developments from initial, fixed-parameter accounts include random-parameter mixtures, and their Bayesian extensions, formally mediating group-level results to assessment of individual performance. Outgrowths bear on model-selection methodology, according to coherence of group-level and individual-level model functioning (in part addressing the issue of "small-trial-sample model testing"); longitudinal monitoring of encoding-specific treatment response; evaluation of treatment-regimen efficacy with respect to encoding efficiency; and specification of times of measurement interest, in fMRI. The symptom significance of encoding elongation, strongly hinted at by model developments, along with a model-endowed window on exacerbating effects of stress, are drawn out. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
61	bayesian	2006	Lee, MD; Pope, KJ	Model selection for the rate problem: A comparison of significance testing, Bayesian, and minimum description length statistical inference	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	One particularly useful but under-explored area for applying model selection in psychology is in basic data analysis. Many problems of deciding whether data have "significant differences" can profitably be viewed as model selection problems. We consider significance testing, Bayesian and minimum description length (MDL) model selection oil a common data analysis problem known as the rate problem. In the rate problem, the question is whether or not the underlying rate of some phenomenon is the same in two populations, based on finite samples from each population that count the number of "successes" from the total number of observations. We develop optimal Bayesian and MDL statistical criteria for making this decision, and compare their performance to the standard significance testing approach. A series of Monte-Carlo evaluations, using different realistic assumptions about the availability of data in rate problems, show that the Bayesian and MDL criteria perform extremely similarly, and perform at least as well as the significance testing approach. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
62	bayesian	2014	Han, JW; Li, KM; Shao, L; Hu, XT; He, S; Guo, L; Han, JG; Liu, TM	Video abstraction based on fMRI-driven visual attention model	INFORMATION SCIENCES	The explosive growth of digital video data renders a profound challenge to succinct, informative, and human-centric representations of video contents. This quickly-evolving research topic is typically called 'video abstraction'. We are motivated by the facts that the human brain is the end-evaluator of multimedia content and that the brain's responses can quantitatively reveal its attentional engagement in the comprehension of video. We propose a novel video abstraction paradigm which leverages functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) to monitor and quantify the brain's responses to video stimuli. These responses are used to guide the extraction of visually informative segments from videos. Specifically, most relevant brain regions involved in video perception and cognition are identified to form brain networks. Then, the propensity for synchronization (PFS) derived from spectral graph theory is utilized over the brain networks to yield the benchmark attention curves based on the fMRI-measured brain responses to a number of training video streams. These benchmark attention curves are applied to guide and optimize the combinations of a variety of low-level visual features created by the Bayesian surprise model. In particular, in the training stage, the optimization objective is to ensure that the learned attentional model correlates well with the brain's responses and reflects the attention that viewers pay to video contents. In the application stage, the attention curves predicted by the learned and optimized attentional model serve as an effective benchmark to abstract testing videos. Evaluations on a set of video sequences from the TRECVID database demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
63	bayesian	2013	Frank, MC	Throwing out the Bayesian baby with the optimal bathwater: Response to Endress (2013)	COGNITION	A recent probabilistic model unified findings on sequential generalization ("rule learning") via independently-motivated principles of generalization (Frank and Tenenbaum, 2011). Endress critiques this work, arguing that learners do not prefer more specific hypotheses (a central assumption of the model), that "common-sense psychology" provides an adequate explanation of rule learning, and that Bayesian models imply incorrect optimality claims but can be fit to any pattern of data. Endress's response raises useful points about the importance of mechanistic explanation, but the specific critiques of our work are not supported. More broadly, I argue that Endress undervalues the importance of formal models. Although probabilistic models must meet a high standard to be used as evidence for optimality claims, they nevertheless provide a powerful framework for describing cognition. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
64	bayesian	2009	Blutner, R	Concepts and Bounded Rationality: An Application of Niestegge's Approach to Conditional Quantum Probabilities	FOUNDATIONS OF PROBABILITY AND PHYSICS - 5	Recently, Gerd Niestegge developed a new approach to quantum mechanics via conditional probabilities developing the well-known proposal to consider the Luders-von Neumann measurement as a non-classical extension of probability conditionalization. I will apply his powerful and rigorous approach to the treatment of concepts using a geometrical model of meaning. In this model, instances are treated as vectors of a Hilbert space K. In the present approach there are at least two possibilities to form categories. The first possibility sees categories as a mixture of its instances (described by a density matrix). In the simplest case we get the classical probability theory including the Bayesian formula. The second possibility sees categories formed by a distinctive prototype which is the superposition of the (weighted) instances. The construction of prototypes can be seen as transferring a mixed quantum state into a pure quantum state freezing the probabilistic characteristics of the Superposed instances into the structure of the formed prototype. Closely related to the idea of forming concepts by prototypes is the existence of interference effects. Such inference effects are typically found in macroscopic quantum systems and I will discuss them in connection with several Puzzles of bounded rationality. The present approach nicely generalizes earlier proposals made by authors such as Diederik Aerts, Andrei Khrennikov, Ricardo Franco, and Jerome Busemeyer. Concluding, I will suggest that an active dialogue between cognitive approaches to logic and semantics and the modem approach of quantum information science is mandatory.
65	bayesian	2009	Haykin, S	COGNITION IS THE KEY TO THE NEXT GENERATION OF RADAR SYSTEMS	2009 IEEE 13TH DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING WORKSHOP & 5TH IEEE PROCESSING EDUCATION WORKSHOP, VOLS 1 AND 2, PROCEEDINGS	Motivated by the echo-location system of a bat, I described the idea of cognitive radar in 2006 for the first time. This paper expands on this novel idea. In particular, the paper focuses on a cognitive tracking radar, the implementation of which comprises two distinct functional blocks, one in the receiver and the other in transmitter with a feedback link from the receiver to the transmitter. To sense the radar environment, the receiver uses approximate Bayesian filtering, which is closely realized by a new nonlinear sequential state estimator, named the Cubature Kalman filter. To control the radar illumination, the transmitter uses an incremental dynamic programming, known as the Q-learning algorithm.
66	bayesian	2004	Webb, MR; Lee, MD	Modeling Individual Differences in Category Learning	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Many evaluations of cognitive models rely on data that have been averaged or aggregated across all experimental subjects, and so fail to consider the possibility that there are important individual differences between subjects. Other evaluations are done at the single-subject level, and so fail to benefit from the reduction of noise that data averaging or aggregation potentially provides. To overcome these weaknesses, we develop a general approach to modeling individual differences using families of cognitive models, where different groups of subjects are identified as having different psychological behavior. Separate models with separate parameterizations are applied to each group of subjects, and Bayesian model selection is used to determine the appropriate number of groups. We demonstrate the general approach in a concrete and detailed way using the ALCOVE model of category learning and data from four previously analysed category learning experiments. Meaningful individual differences are found for three of the four experiments, and ALCOVE is able to account for this variation through psychologically interpretable differences in parameterization. The results highlight the potential of extending cognitive models to consider individual differences.
67	bayesian	2016	Shah, P; Harris, AJL; Bird, G; Catmur, C; Hahn, U	A pessimistic view of optimistic belief updating	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Received academic wisdom holds that human judgment is characterized by unrealistic optimism, the tendency to underestimate the likelihood of negative events and overestimate the likelihood of positive events. With recent questions being raised over the degree to which the majority of this research genuinely demonstrates optimism, attention to possible mechanisms generating such a bias becomes ever more important. New studies have now claimed that unrealistic optimism emerges as a result of biased belief updating with distinctive neural correlates in the brain. On a behavioral level, these studies suggest that, for negative events, desirable information is incorporated into personal risk estimates to a greater degree than undesirable information (resulting in a more optimistic outlook). However, using task analyses, simulations, and experiments we demonstrate that this pattern of results is a statistical artifact. In contrast with previous work, we examined participants' use of new information with reference to the normative, Bayesian standard. Simulations reveal the fundamental difficulties that would need to be overcome by any robust test of optimistic updating. No such test presently exists, so that the best one can presently do is perform analyses with a number of techniques, all of which have important weaknesses. Applying these analyses to five experiments shows no evidence of optimistic updating. These results clarify the difficulties involved in studying human 'bias' and cast additional doubt over the status of optimism as a fundamental characteristic of healthy cognition. (C) 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc.
68	bayesian	2016	Sourty, M; Thoraval, L; Roquet, D; Armspach, JP; Foucher, J; Blanc, F	Identifying Dynamic Functional Connectivity Changes in Dementia with Lewy Bodies Based on Product Hidden Markov Models	FRONTIERS IN COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	Exploring time-varying connectivity networks in neurodegenerative disorders is a recent field of research in functional MRI. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) represents 20% of the neurodegenerative forms of dementia. Fluctuations of cognition and vigilance are the key symptoms of DLB. To date, no dynamic functional connectivity (DFC) investigations of this disorder have been performed. In this paper, we refer to the concept of connectivity state as a piecewise stationary configuration of functional connectivity between brain networks. From this concept, we propose a new method for group-level as well as for subject-level studies to compare and characterize connectivity state changes between a set of resting-state networks (RSNs). Dynamic Bayesian networks, statistical and graph theory based models, enable one to learn dependencies between interacting state-based processes. Product hidden Markov models (PHMM), an instance of dynamic Bayesian networks, are introduced here to capture both statistical and temporal aspects of DEC of a set of RSNs. This analysis was based on sliding-window cross correlations between seven RSNs extracted from a group independent component analysis performed on 20 healthy elderly subjects and 16 patients with DLB. Statistical models of DEC differed in patients compared to healthy subjects for the occipito-parieto-frontal network, the medial occipital network and the right fronto-parietal network. In addition, pairwise comparisons of DEC of RSNs revealed a decrease of dependency between these two visual networks (occipito-parieto-frontal and medial occipital networks) and the right fronto-parietal control network. The analysis of DEC state changes thus pointed out networks related to the cognitive functions that are known to be impaired in DLB: visual processing as well as attentional and executive functions. Besides this context, product HMM applied to RSNs cross-correlations offers a promising new approach to investigate structural and temporal aspects of brain DEC
69	bayesian	2016	Moreau, D; Kirk, IJ; Waldie, KE	Seven Pervasive Statistical Flaws in Cognitive Training Interventions	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	The prospect of enhancing cognition is undoubtedly among the most exciting research questions currently bridging psychology, neuroscience, and evidence-based medicine. Yet, convincing claims in this line of work stem from designs that are prone to several shortcomings, thus threatening the credibility of training-induced cognitive enhancement. Here, we present seven pervasive statistical flaws in intervention designs: (i) lack of power; (ii) sampling error; (iii) continuous variable splits; (iv) erroneous interpretations of correlated gain scores; (v) single transfer assessments; (vi) multiple comparisons; and (vii) publication bias. Each flaw is illustrated with a Monte Carlo simulation to present its underlying mechanisms, gauge its magnitude, and discuss potential remedies. Although not restricted to training studies, these flaws are typically exacerbated in such designs, due to ubiquitous practices in data collection or data analysis. The article reviews these practices, so as to avoid common pitfalls when designing or analyzing an intervention. More generally, it is also intended as a reference for anyone interested in evaluating claims of cognitive enhancement.
70	bayesian	2015	Floridou, GA; Mullensiefen, D	Environmental and mental conditions predicting the experience of involuntary musical imagery: An experience sampling method study	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	An experience sampling method (ESM) study on 40 volunteers was conducted to explore the environmental factors and psychological conditions related to involuntary musical imagery (INMI) in everyday life. Participants reported 6 times per day for one week on their INMI experiences, relevant contextual information and associated environmental conditions. The resulting data was modeled with Bayesian networks and led to insights into the interplay of factors related to INMI experiences. The activity that a person is engaged was found to play an important role in the experience of mind wandering, which in turn enables the experience of INMI. INMI occurrence is independent of the time of the day while the INMI trigger affects the subjective evaluation of the INMI experience. The results are compared to findings from earlier studies based on retrospective surveys and questionnaires and highlight the advantage of ESM techniques in research on spontaneous experiences like INMI. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
71	bayesian	2015	Kahan, DM	Laws of cognition and the cognition of law	COGNITION	This paper presents a compact synthesis of the study of cognition in legal decisionmaking. Featured dynamics include the story-telling model (Pennington & Hastie, 1986), lay prototypes (Smith, 1991), motivated cognition (Sood, 2012), and coherence-based reasoning (Simon, Pham, Le, & Holyoak, 2001). Unlike biases and heuristics understood to bound or constrain rationality, these dynamics identify how information shapes a variety of cognitive inputs from prior beliefs to perceptions of events to the probative weight assigned new information that rational decisionmaking presupposes. The operation of these mechanisms can be shown to radically alter the significance that jurors give to evidence, and hence the conclusions they reach, within a Bayesian framework of information processing. How these dynamics interact with the professional judgment of lawyers and judges, the paper notes, remains in need of investigation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
72	bayesian	2015	Scheibehenne, B; von Helversen, B	Selecting decision strategies: The differential role of affect	COGNITION & EMOTION	Many theories on cognition assume that people adapt their decision strategies depending on the situation they face. To test if and how affect guides the selection of decision strategies, we conducted an online study (N = 166), where different mood states were induced through video clips. Results indicate that mood influenced the use of decision strategies. Negative mood, in particular anger, facilitated the use of non-compensatory strategies, whereas positive mood promoted compensatory decision rules. These results are in line with the idea that positive mood broadens the focus of attention and thus increases the use of compensatory decision strategies that take many pieces of information into account, whereas negative mood narrows the focus of attention and thus fosters non-compensatory strategies that rely on a selective use of information. The results further indicate that gaining a deeper theoretical understanding of the cognitive mechanisms that govern decision processes requires taking emotions into account.
73	bayesian	2010	Mastropasqua, T; Crupi, V; Tentori, K	Broadening the study of inductive reasoning: Confirmation judgments with uncertain evidence	MEMORY & COGNITION	Although evidence in real life is often uncertain, the psychology of inductive reasoning has, so far, been confined to certain evidence. The present study extends previous research by investigating whether people properly estimate the impact of uncertain evidence on a given hypothesis. Two experiments are reported, in which the uncertainty of evidence is explicitly (by means of numerical values) versus implicitly (by means of ambiguous pictures) manipulated. The results show that people's judgments are highly correlated with those predicted by normatively sound Bayesian measures of impact. This sensitivity to the degree of evidential uncertainty supports the centrality of inductive reasoning in cognition and opens the path to the study of this issue in more naturalistic settings.
74	bayesian	2010	Wang, W; Zeng, GS	Bayesian cognitive trust model based self-clustering algorithm for MANETs	SCIENCE CHINA-INFORMATION SCIENCES	With the introduction of mobile Ad hoc networks (MANETs), nodes are able to participate in a dynamic network which lacks an underlying infrastructure. Before two nodes agree to interact, they must trust that each will satisfy the security and privacy requirements of the other. In this paper, using the cognition inspired method from the brain informatics (BI), we present a novel approach to improving the search efficiency and scalability of MANETs by clustering nodes based on cognitive trust mechanism. The trust relationship is formed by evaluating the level of trust using Bayesian statistic analysis, and clusters can be formed and maintained autonomously by nodes with only partial knowledge. Simulation experiments show that each node can form and join proper clusters, which improve the interaction performance of the entire network. The essence of the underlying reason is analyzed through the theory of complex networks, revealing great scalability of this method.
75	bayesian	2009	Oaksford, M; Chater, N	The uncertain reasoner: Bayes, logic, and rationality	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Human cognition requires coping with a complex and uncertain world. This suggests that dealing with uncertainty may be the central challenge for human reasoning. In Bayesian Rationality we argue that probability theory, the calculus of uncertainty, is the right framework in which to understand everyday reasoning. We also argue that probability theory explains behavior, even on experimental tasks that have been designed to probe people's logical reasoning abilities. Most commentators agree on the centrality of uncertainty; some suggest that there is a residual role for logic in understanding reasoning; and others put forward alternative formalisms for uncertain reasoning, or raise specific technical, methodological, or empirical challenges. In responding to these points, we aim to clarify the scope and limits of probability and logic in cognitive science; explore the meaning of the "rational" explanation of cognition; and re-evaluate the empirical case for Bayesian rationality.
76	bayesian	2016	Colagiuri, B; Livesey, EJ	Contextual cuing as a form of nonconscious learning: Theoretical and empirical analysis in large and very large samples	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Numerous studies have demonstrated that associative learning can affect visual cognition. In one such effect, search times for a target hidden among similar distractors are faster for repeated search configurations compared with novel configurations. This contextual cuing effect is particularly interesting, because researchers routinely have failed to find evidence of recognition of the repeated configurations, concluding that the effect is a form of nonconscious learning. Vadillo, Konstantinidis, and Shanks (2016) recently criticized this conclusion on a number of methodological and conceptual grounds that suggest the area suffers from a high probability of false-negative results on awareness tests and misinterpretation of weak or absent relationships between cuing and awareness measures. We developed further predictions from theoretical models assuming that single or independent memory sources drive learning and awareness and discuss how these predictions fare in three new contextual cuing experiments involving large (n > 60) and very large samples (n > 600). The data support the absence of a positive relationship between recognition and the cuing effect both at the participant and configuration level, the probability of which being a false negative is very low in a model assuming a single memory source drives learning and awareness. This was the case using both conventional and Bayesian analyses. The combination of this theoretical and empirical analysis suggests that contextual cuing is not dependent on cue recognition and provides evidence that it reflects a genuine form of nonconscious learning.
77	bayesian	2015	Wixted, JT; Mickes, L	Evaluating eyewitness identification procedures: ROC analysis and its misconceptions	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	ROC analysis is a straightforward but non-intuitive way to determine which of two identification procedures better enables a population of eyewitnesses to correctly sort innocent and guilty suspects into their respective categories. This longstanding analytical method, which is superior to using the diagnosticity ratio for identifying the better procedure, is not in any way compromised by the presence of fillers in lineups and is not tied to any particular theory of memory or discrimination (i.e., it is a theory-free methodology). ROC analysis is widely used in other applied fields, such as diagnostic medicine, and this is true even when the medical procedure in question is exactly analogous to a lineup (e.g., a detection-plus-quadrant-localization task in radiology). Bayesian measures offer no replacement for ROC analysis because they pertain to the information value of a particular diagnostic decision, not to the general diagnostic accuracy of an eyewitness identification procedure. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
78	bayesian	2015	Gershman, SJ; Niv, Y	Novelty and Inductive Generalization in Human Reinforcement Learning	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In reinforcement learning (RL), a decision maker searching for the most rewarding option is often faced with the question: What is the value of an option that has never been tried before? One way to frame this question is as an inductive problem: How can I generalize my previous experience with one set of options to a novel option? We show how hierarchical Bayesian inference can be used to solve this problem, and we describe an equivalence between the Bayesian model and temporal difference learning algorithms that have been proposed as models of RL in humans and animals. According to our view, the search for the best option is guided by abstract knowledge about the relationships between different options in an environment, resulting in greater search efficiency compared to traditional RL algorithms previously applied to human cognition. In two behavioral experiments, we test several predictions of our model, providing evidence that humans learn and exploit structured inductive knowledge to make predictions about novel options. In light of this model, we suggest a new interpretation of dopaminergic responses to novelty.
79	bayesian	2015	Cantlon, JF; Piantadosi, ST; Ferrigno, S; Hughes, KD; Barnard, AM	The Origins of Counting Algorithms	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Humans' ability to count by verbally labeling discrete quantities is unique in animal cognition. The evolutionary origins of counting algorithms are not understood. We report that nonhuman primates exhibit a cognitive ability that is algorithmically and logically similar to human counting. Monkeys were given the task of choosing between two food caches. First, they saw one cache baited with some number of food items, one item at a time. Then, a second cache was baited with food items, one at a time. At the point when the second set was approximately equal to the first set, the monkeys spontaneously moved to choose the second set even before that cache was completely baited. Using a novel Bayesian analysis, we show that the monkeys used an approximate counting algorithm for comparing quantities in sequence that is incremental, iterative, and condition controlled. This proto-counting algorithm is structurally similar to formal counting in humans and thus may have been an important evolutionary precursor to human counting.
80	bayesian	2015	Baggio, G; van Lambalgen, M; Hagoort, P	Logic as Marr's Computational Level: Four Case Studies	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We sketch four applications of Marr's levels-of-analysis methodology to the relations between logic and experimental data in the cognitive neuroscience of language and reasoning. The first part of the paper illustrates the explanatory power of computational level theories based on logic. We show that a Bayesian treatment of the suppression task in reasoning with conditionals is ruled out by EEG data, supporting instead an analysis based on defeasible logic. Further, we describe how results from an EEG study on temporal prepositions can be reanalyzed using formal semantics, addressing a potential confound. The second part of the article demonstrates the predictive power of logical theories drawing on EEG data on processing progressive constructions and on behavioral data on conditional reasoning in people with autism. Logical theories can constrain processing hypotheses all the way down to neurophysiology, and conversely neuroscience data can guide the selection of alternative computational level models of cognition.
81	bayesian	2015	Love, BC	The Algorithmic Level Is the Bridge Between Computation and Brain	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Every scientist chooses a preferred level of analysis and this choice shapes the research program, even determining what counts as evidence. This contribution revisits Marr's (1982) three levels of analysis (implementation, algorithmic, and computational) and evaluates the prospect of making progress at each individual level. After reviewing limitations of theorizing within a level, two strategies for integration across levels are considered. One is top-down in that it attempts to build a bridge from the computational to algorithmic level. Limitations of this approach include insufficient theoretical constraint at the computation level to provide a foundation for integration, and that people are suboptimal for reasons other than capacity limitations. Instead, an inside-out approach is forwarded in which all three levels of analysis are integrated via the algorithmic level. This approach maximally leverages mutual data constraints at all levels. For example, algorithmic models can be used to interpret brain imaging data, and brain imaging data can be used to select among competing models. Examples of this approach to integration are provided. This merging of levels raises questions about the relevance of Marr's tripartite view.
82	bayesian	2014	Chen, SY; Ross, BH; Murphy, GL	Implicit and Explicit Processes in Category-Based Induction: Is Induction Best When We Don't Think?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	In category-based induction (CBI), people use category information to predict unknown properties of exemplars. When an item's classification is uncertain, normative principles and Bayesian models suggest that predictions should integrate information across all possible categories. However, researchers previously have found that people often base their predictions on only a single category. In the present studies, we investigated the possible distinction between implicit and explicit processes in CBI. Predictions of an object's motion took the form of either a catching task (implicit) or a verbal answer (explicit). When subjects made predictions implicitly (Experiment 1), they used categories as Bayesian models predict. Explicit predictions (Experiment 2) showed clearly nonnormative use of categories. This distinction between implicit and explicit processes was replicated with a within-subjects design (Experiment 3). When subjects learned categories implicitly (categories were never mentioned) in Experiment 4, their explicit predictions did not reflect integration of information across categories but again showed a nonnormative pattern of category use. These results provide support for a distinction between implicit and explicit processes in CBI and furthermore suggest that the same category knowledge may result in normative or nonnormative responding, depending on the response mode.
83	bayesian	2013	Mender, D	The implicit possibility of dualism in quantum probabilistic cognitive modeling	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Pothos & Busemeyer (P&B) argue convincingly that quantum probability offers an improvement over classical Bayesian probability in modeling the empirical data of cognitive science. However, a weakness related to restrictions on the dimensionality of incompatible physical observables flows from the authors' "agnosticism" regarding quantum processes in neural substrates underlying cognition. Addressing this problem will require either future research findings validating quantum neurophysics or theoretical expansion of the uncertainty principle as a new, neurocognitively contextualized, "local" symmetry.
84	bayesian	2012	Cesana-Arlotti, N; Teglas, E; Bonatti, LL	The Probable and the Possible at 12 Months: Intuitive Reasoning about the Uncertain Future	RATIONAL CONSTRUCTIVISM IN COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT	How do infants predict the next future event, when such a prediction requires estimating the event's probability? The literature suggests that adult humans often fail this task because their probability estimates are affected by heuristics and biases or because they can reason about the frequency of classes of events but not about the probability of single events. Recent evidence suggests instead that already at 12 months infants have an intuitive notion of probability that applies to single, never experienced events and that they may use it to predict what will happen next. We present a theory according to which infants' intuitive grasp of the probability of future events derives from their representation of logically consistent future possibilities. We compare it and other theories against the currently available data. Although the evidence does not speak uniquely in favor of one theory, the results presented and the theories currently being developed to account for them suggest that infants have surprisingly sophisticated reasoning abilities. These conclusions are incompatible with most current theories of adult logical and probabilistic reasoning.
85	bayesian	2016	Butz, MV	Toward a Unified Sub-symbolic Computational Theory of Cognition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper proposes how various disciplinary theories of cognition may be combined into a unifying, sub-symbolic, computational theory of cognition. The following theories are considered for integration: psychological theories, including the theory of event coding, event segmentation theory, the theory of anticipatory behavioral control, and concept development; artificial intelligence and machine learning theories, including reinforcement learning and generative artificial neural networks; and theories from theoretical and computational neuroscience, including predictive coding and free energy-based inference. In the light of such a potential unification, it is discussed how abstract cognitive, conceptualized knowledge and understanding may be learned from actively gathered sensorimotor experiences. The unification rests on the free energy-based inference principle, which essentially implies that the brain builds a predictive, generative model of its environment. Neural activity-oriented inference causes the continuous adaptation of the currently active predictive encodings. Neural structure-oriented inference causes the longer term adaptation of the developing generative model as a whole. Finally, active inference strives for maintaining internal homeostasis, causing goal-directed motor behavior. To learn abstract, hierarchical encodings, however, it is proposed that free energy-based inference needs to be enhanced with structural priors, which bias cognitive development toward the formation of particular, behaviorally suitable encoding structures. As a result, it is hypothesized how abstract concepts can develop from, and thus how they are structured by and grounded in, sensorimotor experiences. Moreover, it is sketched-out how symbol-like thought can be generated by a temporarily active set of predictive encodings, which constitute a distributed neural attractor in the form of an interactive free-energy minimum. The activated, interactive network attractor essentially characterizes the semantics of a concept or a concept composition, such as an actual or imagined situation in our environment. Temporal successions of attractors then encode unfolding semantics, which may be generated by a behavioral or mental interaction with an actual or imagined situation in our environment. Implications, further predictions, possible verification, and falsifications, as well as potential enhancements into a fully spelled-out unified theory of cognition are discussed at the end of the paper.
86	bayesian	2016	Myslin, M; Levy, R	Comprehension priming as rational expectation for repetition: Evidence from syntactic processing	COGNITION	Why do comprehenders process repeated stimuli more rapidly than novel stimuli? We consider an adaptive explanation for why such facilitation may be beneficial: priming is a consequence of expectation for repetition due to rational adaptation to the environment. If occurrences of a stimulus cluster in time, given one occurrence it is rational to expect a second occurrence closely following. Leveraging such knowledge may be particularly useful in online processing of language, where pervasive clustering may help comprehenders negotiate the considerable challenge of continual expectation update at multiple levels of linguistic structure and environmental variability. We test this account in the domain of structural priming in syntax, making use of the sentential complement-direct object (SC-DO) ambiguity. We first show that sentences containing SC continuations cluster in natural language, motivating an expectation for repetition of this structure. Second, we show that comprehenders are indeed sensitive to the syntactic clustering properties of their current environment. In a series of between-groups self paced reading studies, we find that participants who are exposed to clusters of SC sentences subsequently process repetitions of SC structure more rapidly than participants who are exposed to the same number of SCs spaced in time, and attribute the difference to the learned degree of expectation for repetition. We model this behavior through Bayesian belief update, showing that (the optimal degree of) sensitivity to clustering properties of syntactic structures is indeed learnable through experience. Comprehension priming effects are thus consistent with rational expectation for repetition based on adaptation to the linguistic environment. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licensesiby/4.0/).
87	bayesian	2016	Zhang, JX; Rittman, T; Nombela, C; Fois, A; Coyle-Gilchrist, I; Barker, RA; Hughes, LE; Rowe, JB	Different decision deficits impair response inhibition in progressive supranuclear palsy and Parkinson's disease	BRAIN	Progressive supranuclear palsy and Parkinson's disease have distinct underlying neuropathology, but both diseases affect cognitive function in addition to causing a movement disorder. They impair response inhibition and may lead to impulsivity, which can occur even in the presence of profound akinesia and rigidity. The current study examined the mechanisms of cognitive impairments underlying disinhibition, using horizontal saccadic latencies that obviate the impact of limb slowness on executing response decisions. Nineteen patients with clinically diagnosed progressive supranuclear palsy (Richardson's syndrome), 24 patients with clinically diagnosed Parkinson's disease and 26 healthy control subjects completed a saccadic Go/No-Go task with a head-mounted infrared saccadometer. Participants were cued on each trial to make a pro-saccade to a horizontal target or withhold their responses. Both patient groups had impaired behavioural performance, with more commission errors than controls. Mean saccadic latencies were similar between all three groups. We analysed behavioural responses as a binary decision between Go and No-Go choices. By using Bayesian parameter estimation, we fitted a hierarchical drift-diffusion model to individual participants' single trial data. The model decomposes saccadic latencies into parameters for the decision process: decision boundary, drift rate of accumulation, decision bias, and non-decision time. In a leave-one-out three-way classification analysis, the model parameters provided better discrimination between patients and controls than raw behavioural measures. Furthermore, the model revealed disease-specific deficits in the Go/No-Go decision process. Both patient groups had slower drift rate of accumulation, and shorter non-decision time than controls. But patients with progressive supranuclear palsy were strongly biased towards a pro-saccade decision boundary compared to Parkinson's patients and controls. This indicates a prepotency of responding in combination with a reduction in further accumulation of evidence, which provides a parsimonious explanation for the apparently paradoxical combination of disinhibition and severe akinesia. The combination of the well-tolerated oculomotor paradigm and the sensitivity of the model-based analysis provides a valuable approach for interrogating decision-making processes in neurodegenerative disorders. The mechanistic differences underlying participants' poor performance were not observable from classical analysis of behavioural data, but were clearly revealed by modelling. These differences provide a rational basis on which to develop and assess new therapeutic strategies for cognition and behaviour in these disorders.
88	bayesian	2015	Wells, GL; Smith, AM; Smalarz, L	ROC analysis of lineups obscures information that is critical for both theoretical understanding and applied purposes	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Our previous article (Wells et al., 2015a. Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition) showed how ROC analysis of lineups does not measure underlying discriminability or control for response bias. Wixted and Mickes (2015. Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition) concede these points. Hence, in this article we focus more on how forcing the 3 x 2 lineup into the 2 x 2 structure required for ROC analysis obscures important underlying phenomena of theoretical value. Moreover, ROC analysis fails to account for the unique diagnostic properties of exonerating eyewitness behaviors (filler identifications and rejections). We describe how an examination of the full 3 x 2 structure helps reveal the critical underlying phenomena that ROC analysis hides. We also show how a Bayesian approach yields a family of diagnosticity functions that exposes the unique diagnosticity of all three eyewitness behaviors (suspect identifications, filler identifications, and rejections). Moreover, we show how Bayesian methods can examine diagnosticity as a function of witness confidence for all three eyewitness behaviors, which gives it a significant applied advantage over ROC analysis. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
89	bayesian	2015	Sirota, M; Vallee-Tourangeau, G; Vallee-Tourangeau, F; Juanchich, M	On Bayesian problem-solving: helping Bayesians solve simple Bayesian word problems	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	0
90	bayesian	2015	Hafenbradl, S; Hoffrage, U	Toward an ecological analysis of Bayesian inferences: how task characteristics influence responses	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In research on Bayesian inferences, the specific tasks, with their narratives and characteristics, are typically seen as exchangeable vehicles that merely transport the structure of the problem to research participants. In the present paper, we explore whether, and possibly how, task characteristics that are usually ignored influence participants' responses in these tasks. We focus on both quantitative dimensions of the tasks, such as their base rates, hit rates, and false-alarm rates, as well as qualitative characteristics, such as whether the task involves a norm violation or not, whether the stakes are high or low, and whether the focus is on the individual case or on the numbers. Using a data set of 19 different tasks presented to 500 different participants who provided a total of 1,773 responses, we analyze these responses in two ways: first, on the level of the numerical estimates themselves, and second, on the level of various response strategies, Bayesian and non-Bayesian, that might have produced the estimates. We identified various contingencies, and most of the task characteristics had an influence on participants' responses. Typically, this influence has been stronger when the numerical information in the tasks was presented in terms of probabilities or percentages, compared to natural frequencies and this effect cannot be fully explained by a higher proportion of Bayesian responses when natural frequencies were used. One characteristic that did not seem to influence participants' response strategy was the numerical value of the Bayesian solution itself. Our exploratory study is a first step toward an ecological analysis of Bayesian inferences, and highlights new avenues for future research.
91	bayesian	2015	Yildirim, I; Jacobs, RA	Learning multisensory representations for auditory-visual transfer of sequence category knowledge: a probabilistic language of thought approach	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	If a person is trained to recognize or categorize objects or events using one sensory modality, the person can often recognize or categorize those same (or similar) objects and events via a novel modality. This phenomenon is an instance of cross-modal transfer of knowledge. Here, we study the Multisensory Hypothesis which states that people extract the intrinsic, modality-independent properties of objects and events, and represent these properties in multisensory representations. These representations underlie cross-modal transfer of knowledge. We conducted an experiment evaluating whether people transfer sequence category knowledge across auditory and visual domains. Our experimental data clearly indicate that we do. We also developed a computational model accounting for our experimental results. Consistent with the probabilistic language of thought approach to cognitive modeling, our model formalizes multisensory representations as symbolic "computer programs" and uses Bayesian inference to learn these representations. Because the model demonstrates how the acquisition and use of amodal, multisensory representations can underlie cross-modal transfer of knowledge, and because the model accounts for subjects' experimental performances, our work lends credence to the Multisensory Hypothesis. Overall, our work suggests that people automatically extract and represent objects' and events' intrinsic properties, and use these properties to process and understand the same (and similar) objects and events when they are perceived through novel sensory modalities.
92	bayesian	2015	Bechtel, W; Shagrir, O	The Non-Redundant Contributions of Marr's Three Levels of Analysis for Explaining Information-Processing Mechanisms	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Are all three of Marr's levels needed? Should they be kept distinct? We argue for the distinct contributions and methodologies of each level of analysis. It is important to maintain them because they provide three different perspectives required to understand mechanisms, especially information-processing mechanisms. The computational perspective provides an understanding of how a mechanism functions in broader environments that determines the computations it needs to perform (and may fail to perform). The representation and algorithmic perspective offers an understanding of how information about the environment is encoded within the mechanism and what are the patterns of organization that enable the parts of the mechanism to produce the phenomenon. The implementation perspective yields an understanding of the neural details of the mechanism and how they constrain function and algorithms. Once we adequately characterize the distinct role of each level of analysis, it is fairly straightforward to see how they relate.
93	bayesian	2014	Aguirre, R; Nyerges, T	An Agent-Based Model of Public Participation in Sustainability Management	JASSS-THE JOURNAL OF ARTIFICIAL SOCIETIES AND SOCIAL SIMULATION	This article reports on an agent-based simulation of public participation in decision making about sustainability management. Agents were modeled as socially intelligent actors who communicate using a system of symbols. The goal of the simulation was for agents to reach consensus about which situations in their regional environment to change and which ones not to change as part of a geodesign process for improving water quality in the greater Puget Sound region. As opposed to studying self-organizing behavior at the scale of a local 'commons', our interest was in how online technology supports the self-organizing behavior of agents distributed over a wide regional area, like a watershed or river basin. Geographically-distributed agents interacted through an online platform similar to that used in online field experiments with actual human subjects. We used a factorial research design to vary three interdependent factors each with three different levels. The three factors included 1) the social and geographic distribution of agents (local, regional, international levels), 2) abundance of agents (low, medium, high levels), and 3) diversity of preconceptions (blank slate, clone, social actor levels). We expected that increasing the social and geographic distribution of agents and the diversity of their preconceptions would have a significant impact on agent consensus about which situations to change and which ones not to change. However, our expectations were not met by our findings, which we trace all the way back to our conceptual model and a theoretical gap in sustainability science. The theory of self-organizing resource users does not specify how a group of social actors' preconceptions about a situation is interdependent with their social and geographic orientation to that situation. We discuss the results of the experiment and conclude with prospects for research on the social and geographic dimensions of self-organizing behavior in social-ecological systems spanning wide regional areas.
94	bayesian	2013	Nagel, J; Waldmann, MR	Deconfounding Distance Effects in Judgments of Moral Obligation	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	A heavily disputed question of moral philosophy is whether spatial distance between agent and victim is normatively relevant for the degree of obligation to help strangers in need. In this research, we focus on the associated descriptive question whether increased distance does-in fact reduce individuals' sense of helping obligation. One problem with empirically answering this question is that physical proximity is typically confounded with other factors, such as informational directness, shared group membership, or increased efficaciousness. In a series of 5 experiments, we show that distance per se does not influence people's moral intuitions when it is isolated from such confounds. We support our claims with both frequentist and Bayesian statistics. We relate these findings to philosophical arguments concerning the normative relevance of distance and to psychological theories linking distance cues to higher level social cognition. The effects of joint versus separate evaluation paradigms on moral judgments are also discussed.
95	bayesian	2012	Schlesinger, M; McMurray, B	The past, present, and future of computational models of cognitive development	COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT	Does modeling matter? We address this question by providing a broad survey of the computational models of cognitive development that have been proposed and studied over the last three decades. We begin by noting the advantages and limitations of computational models. We then describe four key dimensions across which models of development can be organized and classified. With this taxonomy in hand, we focus on how the modeling enterprise has evolved over time. In particular, we separate the timeline into three overlapping historical waves and highlight how each wave of models has not only been shaped by developmental theory and behavioral research, but in return also provided valuable insights and innovations to the study of cognitive development. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
96	bayesian	2011	Dawson, C; Gerken, L	When global structure "Explains Away" local grammar: A Bayesian account of rule-induction in tone sequences	COGNITION	While many constraints on learning must be relatively experience-independent, past experience provides a rich source of guidance for subsequent learning. Discovering structure in some domain can inform a learner's future hypotheses about that domain. If a general property accounts for particular sub-patterns, a rational learner should not stipulate separate explanations for each detail without additional evidence, as the general structure has "explained away" the original evidence. In a grammar-learning experiment using tone sequences, manipulating learners' prior exposure to a tone environment affects their sensitivity to the grammar-defining feature, in this case consecutive repeated tones. Grammar-learning performance is worse if context melodies are "smooth" when small intervals occur more than large ones as Smoothness is a general property accounting for a high rate of repetition. We present an idealized Bayesian model as a "best case" benchmark for learning repetition grammars. When context melodies are Smooth, the model places greater weight on the small-interval constraint, and does not learn the repetition rule as well as when context melodies are not Smooth, paralleling the human learners. These findings support an account of abstract grammar-induction in which learners rationally assess the statistical evidence for underlying structure based on a generative model of the environment. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
97	bayesian	2010	Kemp, C; Chang, KMK; Lombardi, L	Category and feature identification	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	This paper considers a family of inductive problems where reasoners must identify familiar categories or features on the basis of limited information. Problems of this kind are encountered, for example, when word learners acquire novel labels for pre-existing concepts. We develop a probabilistic model of identification and evaluate it in three experiments. Our first two experiments explore problems where a single category or feature must be identified, and our third experiment explores cases where participants must combine several pieces of information in order to simultaneously identify a category and a feature. Humans readily solve all of these problems, and we show that our model accounts for human inferences better than several alternative approaches. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
98	bayesian	2010	Shrager, J; Billman, D; Convertino, G; Massar, JP; Pirolli, P	Soccer Science and the Bayes Community: Exploring the Cognitive Implications of Modern Scientific Communication	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Science is a form of distributed analysis involving both individual work that produces new knowledge and collaborative work to exchange information with the larger community. There are many particular ways in which individual and community can interact in science, and it is difficult to assess how efficient these are, and what the best way might be to support them. This paper reports on a series of experiments in this area and a prototype implementation using a research platform called CACHE. CACHE both supports experimentation with different structures of interaction between individual and community cognition and serves as a prototype for computational support for those structures. We particularly focus on CACHE-BC, the Bayes community version of CACHE, within which the community can break up analytical tasks into "mind-sized'' units and use provenance tracking to keep track of the relationship between these units.
99	bayesian	2006	Helie, S; Chartier, S; Proulx, R	Are unsupervised neural networks ignorant? Sizing the effect of environmental distributions on unsupervised learning	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Learning environmental biases is a rational behavior: by using prior odds, Bayesian networks rapidly became a benchmark in machine learning. Moreover, a growing body of evidence now suggests that humans are using base rate information. Unsupervised connectionist networks are used in computer science for machine learning and in psychology to model human cognition, but it is unclear whether they are sensitive to prior odds. In this paper, we show that hard competitive learners are unable to use environmental biases while recurrent associative memories use frequency of exemplars and categories independently. Hence, it is concluded that recurrent associative memories are more useful than hard competitive networks to model human cognition and have a higher potential in machine learning. (c) 2006 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
100	bayesian	2006	Shanks, DR	Bayesian associative learning	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The Bayesian approach to belief updating is par excellence a theory of learning - a theory of how beliefs should be revised in the light of new evidence. Yet despite its considerable utility as a framework for understanding cognition, it has not been prominent in theorizing about elementary learning processes in animals and humans. New research by Kruschke seems set to change this and to offer a bridge between rational and empirically descriptive accounts of learning.
101	connectionism	1993	LING, CX; MARINOV, M	ANSWERING THE CONNECTIONIST CHALLENGE - A SYMBOLIC MODEL OF LEARNING THE PAST TENSES OF ENGLISH VERBS	COGNITION	Supporters of eliminative connectionism have argued for a pattern association-based explanation of language learning and language processing. They deny that explicit rules and symbolic representations play any role in language processing and cognition in general. Their argument is based to a large extent on two artificial neural network (ANN) models that are claimed to be able to learn the past tenses of English verbs (Rumelhart & McClelland, 1986, Parallel distributed processing, Vol. 2, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; MacWhinney and Leinbach, 1991, Cognition, 40, 121-157). In this article we critically review Rumelhart and McClelland's as well as MacWhinney and Leinbach's ANN models and conclude that they do not succeed in the assigned task of learning the past tenses of English verbs. In order to answer their challenge to the symbolic processing approach, we present our symbolic pattern associator (SPA) - a general-purpose pattern associator that can learn to associate arbitrary discrete patterns. We carried out several experiments with the SPA using the same set of verbs that was used in MacWhinney and Leinbach's simulation with more realistic training and testing procedures. The SPA outperformed the connectionist models by a wide margin in the accuracy of learning, and successful inductive generalizations to unseen verbs. Our SPA has very natural and psychologically realistic explanations to many psychological effects such as U-shaped learning curve, and is much closer to human subjects in predicting past tenses of the pseudo-verbs. In contrast to ANNs, whose internal representations are entirely opaque, the SPA can represent the acquired knowledge in the form of production rules that allow for further higher-level processing and integration, resulting in linguistically realistic associative templates for irregular verbs and production rules for regular verbs. In the light of these findings, we conclude that eliminative connectionists' vision of cognition as simple pattern association and pattern recognition without symbolic representation is inadequate. Pattern association as such does nor imply rule-less or cue-based models of language acquisition or of human learning in general.
102	connectionism	2009	Watts, MJ	A Decade of Kasabov's Evolving Connectionist Systems: A Review	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART C-APPLICATIONS AND REVIEWS	Evolving connectionist systems (ECoSs) are a family of constructive artificial neural network algorithms that were first proposed by Kasabov in 1998, where "evolving" in this context means "changing over time," rather than evolving through simulated evolution. A decade on the number of ECoS algorithms and the problems to which they have been applied have multiplied. This paper reviews the current state of the art in the field of ECoS networks via a substantial literature review. It reviews: 1) the motivations for ECoS; 2) the major ECoS algorithms in use; 3) previously existing constructive algorithms that are similar to ECoS; 4) empirical evaluations of ECoS networks over benchmark datasets; and 5) applications of ECoS to real-world problems. The paper ends with some suggestions of future directions of research into ECoS networks. a
103	connectionism	2003	Larkey, LB; Love, BC	CAB: Connectionist analogy builder	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The ability to make informative comparisons is central to human cognition. Comparison involves aligning two representations and placing their elements into correspondence. Detecting correspondences is a necessary component of analogical inference, recognition, categorization, schema formation, and similarity judgment. Connectionist Analogy Builder (CAB) determines correspondences through a simple iterative computation that matches elements in one representation with elements playing compatible roles in the other representation while simultaneously enforcing structural constraints. CAB shows promise as a process model of comparison as its performance can be related to human performance (e.g., solution trajectory, error patterns, time-on-task). Furthermore, CAB's bounded working memory allows it to account for the inherent capacity limitations of human processing. CAB's strengths are its parsimony, transparency of operations, and ability to generate performance predictions. In this paper, CAB is evaluated against benchmark phenomena from the analogy literature. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
104	connectionism	2003	Gaskell, MG	Modelling regressive and progressive effects of assimilation in speech perception	JOURNAL OF PHONETICS	Models of the perception of phonologically variant speech differ in the extent to which contextual information is used predictively versus regressively. These temporal disparities reflect corresponding differences in the experimental literature on the perception of English place assimilation (in which for example the place of the /n/ in "lean bacon" takes on the bilabial place of articulation of the following consonant /b/). Here I present an updated version of a probabilistic connectionist model (Gaskell et al., 1995, Cognitive Science, 19, 407), which learns to compensate for assimilatory alternations as a consequence of exposure to natural variation in speech. The effects of incorporating graded assimilation on the behaviour of the model are examined, with a pattern of strong predictive effects found for mild and moderate assimilation, and strong regressive effects for more complete assimilations. This behaviour provides a basis for explaining much of the existing experimental data, and provides an explicit profile of temporal effects for testing in further research. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
105	connectionism	1996	Eliasmith, C	The third contender: A critical examination of the dynamicist theory of cognition	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a recent series of publications, dynamicist researchers have proposed a new conception of cognitive functioning. This conception is intended to replace the currently dominant theories of connectionism and symbolicism. The dynamicist approach to cognitive modeling employs concepts developed in the mathematical field of dynamical systems theory. They claim that cognitive models should be embedded, low-dimensional, complex, described by coupled differential equations, and non-representational. In this paper I begin with a short description of the dynamicist project and its role as a cognitive theory. Subsequently, I determine the theoretical commitments of dynamicists, critically examine those commitments and discuss current examples of dynamicist models. In conclusion, I determine dynamicism's relation to symbolicism and connectionism and find that the dynamicist goal to establish a new paradigm has yet to be realized.
106	connectionism	2007	Hogue, M; Lord, RG	A multilevel, complexity theory approach to understanding gender bias in leadership	LEADERSHIP QUARTERLY	We use principles from multilevel theory, complexity theory, and connectionist theory to integrate existing gender bias explanations into a comprehensive model of gender bias in leadership, one that can be used to examine and understand how throughout the leadership process gender bias occurs and can affect women negatively. The synthesis of connectionism and complexity theories provides an opportunity to suggest novel solutions to this important leadership problem, but it also shows why multiple solutions applied at individual, group, and organizational levels all may be required to change the way agents and systems of agents respond to potential female leaders. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
107	connectionism	2003	Eiser, JR; Fazio, RH; Stafford, T; Prescott, TJ	Connectionist simulation of attitude learning: Asymmetries in the acquisition of positive and negative evaluations	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY BULLETIN	Connectionist computer simulation was employed to explore the notion that, if attitudes guide approach and avoidance behaviors, false negative beliefs are likely to remain uncorrected for longer than false positive beliefs. In Study 1, the authors trained a three-layer neural network to discriminate "good" and "bad" inputs distributed across a two-dimensional space. "Full feedback" training, whereby connection weights were modified to reduce error after every trial, resulted in perfect discrimination. "Contingent feedback," whereby connection weights were only updated following outputs representing approach behavior, led to several false negative errors (good inputs misclassified as bad). In Study 2, the network was redesigned to distinguish a system for learning evaluations from a mechanism for selecting actions. Biasing action selection toward approach eliminated the asymmetry between learning of good and bad inputs under contingent feedback. Implications for various attitudinal phenomena and biases in social cognition are discussed.
108	connectionism	1997	Bullinaria, JA	Modeling reading, spelling, and past tense learning with artificial neural networks	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The connectionist modeling of reading, spelling, and past tense acquisition is discussed. We show how the same simple pattern association network for all three tasks can achieve perfect performance on training data containing many irregular words, provide near human level generalization performance, and exhibit some realistic developmental and brain damage effects, It is also shown how reaction times (such as naming latencies) can be extracted from these networks alone with independent priming and speed-accuracy trade-off effects, We argue that all the remaining problems with these models will be solved by supplementing them with an appropriate connectionist semantic route. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
109	connectionism	1992	PLUNKETT, K; SINHA, C	CONNECTIONISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL THEORY	BRITISH JOURNAL OF DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The main goal of this paper is to argue for an 'epigenetic developmental interpretation' of connectionist modelling of human cognitive processes, and to propose that Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) models provide a superior account of developmental phenomena than that offered by cognitivist (symbolic) computational theories. After comparing some of the general characteristics of epigeneticist and cognitivist theories, we provide a brief overview of the operating principles underlying Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) and their associated learning procedures. Four applications of different PDP architectures to developmental phenomena are described. First, we assess the current status of the debate between symbolic and connectionist accounts of the process of English past tense formation. Second, we introduce a connectionist model of concept formation and vocabulary growth and show how it provides an account of aspects of semantic development in early childhood. Next, we take up the problem of compositionality and structure dependency in connectionist nets, and demonstrate that PDP models can be architecturally designed to capture the structural principals characteristic of human cognition. Finally, we review a connectionist model of cognitive development which yields stage-like behavioural properties even though architectural and input assumptions remain constant throughout training. It is shown how the organizational characteristics of the model provide a simple but precise account of the equilibration of the processes of accommodation and assimilation. The article concludes that a coherent epigenetic-developmental interpretation of PDP modelling requires the rejection of so-called hybrid-architecture theories of human cognition.
110	connectionism	1998	Bickhard, MH	Levels of representationality	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The dominant assumptions throughout contemporary philosophy, psychology, cognitive science, and artificial intelligence about the ontology underlying intentionality, and its core of representationality, are those of encodings-some sort of informational or correspondence or covariation relationship between the represented and its representation that constitutes that representational relationship. There are many disagreements concerning details and implementations, and even some suggestions about claimed alternative ontologies, such as connectionism (though none that escape what is argued is the fundamental flaw in these dominant approaches). One assumption that seems to be held by all, however, usually without explication or defence, is that there is one singular underlying ontology to representationality. In this paper, it is argued that there are in fact quite a number of ontologies that manifest representationality-levels of representationality-and that none of them are the standard 'manipulations of encoded symbols' ontology, nor any other variation on the informational approach to representation. Collectively, these multiple representational ontologies constitute a framework for cognition, whether natural or artificial.
111	connectionism	1996	Brent, MR	Advances in the computational study of language acquisition	COGNITION	This paper provides a tutorial introduction to computational studies of how children learn their native languages. Its aim is to make recent advances accessible to the broader research community, and to place them in the context of current theoretical issues. The first section locates computational studies and behavioral studies within a common theoretical framework The next two sections review two papers that appear in this volume: one on learning the meanings of words and one on learning the sounds of words. The following section highlights an idea which emerges independently in these two papers and which I have dubbed autonomous bootstrapping. Classical bootstrapping hypotheses propose that children begin to get a toe-hold in a particular linguistic domain, such as syntax, by exploiting information from another domain, such as semantics. Autonomous bootstrapping complements the cross-domain acquisition strategies of classical bootstrapping with strategies that apply within a single domain. Autonomous bootstrapping strategies work by representing partial and/or uncertain linguistic knowledge and using it to analyze the input. The next two sections review two more more contributions to this special issue: one on learning word meanings via selectional preferences and one on algorithms for setting grammatical parameters. The final section suggests directions for future research.
112	connectionism	1994	BARTLETT, EB	DYNAMIC NODE ARCHITECTURE LEARNING - AN INFORMATION-THEORETIC APPROACH	NEURAL NETWORKS	Typically, artificial neural network (ANN) training schemes require network size to be set before learning is initiated. The learning speed and generalization characteristics of ANNs are, however, dependent on this pretraining selection of the network architecture. The training and generalization viability of a specific network can, therefore, only be evaluated posttraining. This work presents an information theoretic method that alleviates this predicament by building the appropriate network architecture dynamically during the training process. The method, called dynamic node architecture learning (DNAL), eliminates the need to select network size before training. Examples illustrate the use and advantages of the information theoretic DNAL approach over static architecture learning (SAL).
113	connectionism	2004	Joanisse, MF	Specific language impairments in children - Phonology, semantics, and the English past tense	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Theories of specific language impairment (SLI) in children turn on whether this deficit stems from a grammar-specific impairment or a more general speech-processing deficit. This issue parallels a more general question in cognitive neuroscience concerning the brain bases of linguistic rules. This more general debate frequently focuses oil past-tense verbs, specifically, whether regular verbs (bake-baked) are encoded as rules, and whether irregular forms (take-took) are processed differently. Children with SLI have difficulties with past tenses, so SLI could represent an impairment to rules. An alternative theory explains past-tense deficits in SLI as resulting front a phonological deficit. Evidence for this theory has been obtained from connectionist models of past-tense impairments and from behavioral studies of language- and reading-impaired children. The data suggest that SLI is not an impairment to linguistic rules, that past-tense impairments can be explained as resulting from a perceptual deficit, and that a single processing mechanism is ideally suited to account for these childrens difficulties.
114	connectionism	1999	Smolensky, P	Grammar-based connectionist approaches to language	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article describes on approach to connectionist language research that relies on the development of grammar formalisms rather than computer models. From formulations of the fundamental theoretical commitments of connectionism and of generative grammar, it is argued that these two paradigms ore mutually compatible. Integrating the basic assumptions of the paradigms results in formal theories of grammar that centrally incorporate a certain degree of connectionist computation. Two such grammar formalisms-Harmonic Grammar (Legendre, Miyata, & Smolensky, 1990a,b) and Optimality Theory (Prince & Smolensky, 1991, 1993)-are briefly introduced to illustrate grammar-based approaches to connectionist language research. The strengths and weaknesses of grammar-based research and more traditional model-based research are argued to be complementary, suggesting a significant role for both strategies in the spectrum of connectionist language research.
115	connectionism	1990	MCLAUGHLIN, B	CONSCIOUS VERSUS UNCONSCIOUS LEARNING	TESOL QUARTERLY	0
116	connectionism	2006	Shagrir, O	Why we view the brain as a computer	SYNTHESE	The view that the brain is a sort of computer has functioned as a theoretical guideline both in cognitive science and, more recently, in neuroscience. But since we can view every physical system as a computer, it has been less than clear what this view amounts to. By considering in some detail a seminal study in computational neuroscience, I first suggest that neuroscientists invoke the computational outlook to explain regularities that are formulated in terms of the information content of electrical signals. I then indicate why computational theories have explanatory force with respect to these regularities:in a nutshell, they underscore correspondence relations between formal/mathematical properties of the electrical signals and formal/mathematical properties of the represented objects. I finally link my proposal to the philosophical thesis that content plays an essential role in computational taxonomy.
117	connectionism	2001	Schlesinger, M; Parisi, D	The agent-based approach: A new direction for computational models of development	DEVELOPMENTAL REVIEW	The agent-based approach emphasizes the importance of learning through organism-environment interaction. This approach is part of a recent trend in computational models of learning and development toward studying autonomous organisms that are embedded in virtual or real environments. In this paper we introduce the concepts of online and offline sampling and highlight the role of online sampling in agent-based models. After comparing the strengths of each approach for modeling particular developmental phenomena and research questions, we describe a recent agent-based model of infant causal perception. We conclude by discussing some of the present limitations of agent-based models and suggesting how these challenges may be addressed. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
118	connectionism	1999	Gold, I; Stoljar, D	A neuron doctrine in the philosophy of neuroscience	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Many neuroscientists and philosophers endorse a view about the explanatory reach of neuroscience (which we will call the neuron doctrine) to the effect that the framework for understanding the mind will be developed by neuroscience; or, as we will put it, that a successful theory of the mind will be solely neuroscientific. It is a consequence of this view that the sciences of the mind that cannot be expressed by means of neuroscientific concepts alone count as indirect sciences that will be discarded as neuroscience matures. This consequence is what makes the doctrine substantive, indeed, radical. We ask, first, what the neuron doctrine means and, second, whether it is true. In answer to the first question, we distinguish two versions of the doctrine. One version, the trivial neuron doctrine, turns out to be uncontroversial but unsubstantive because it fails to have the consequence that the nonneuroscientific sciences of the mind will eventually be discarded. A second version, the radical neuron doctrine, does have this consequence, but, unlike the first doctrine, is highly controversial. We argue that the neuron doctrine appears to be both substantive and uncontroversial only as a result of a conflation of these two versions. We then consider whether the radical doctrine is true. We present and evaluate three arguments for it, based either on general scientific and philosophical considerations or on the details of neuroscience itself, arguing that all three fail. We conclude that the evidence fails to support the radical neuron doctrine.
119	connectionism	1997	Hadley, RF; Hayward, MB	Strong semantic systematicity from Hebbian connectionist learning	MINDS AND MACHINES	Fodor's and Pylyshyn's stand on systematicity in thought and language has been debated and criticized. Van Gelder and Niklasson, among others, have argued that Fodor and Pylyshyn offer no precise definition of systematicity. However, our concern here is with a learning based formulation of that concept. In particular, Hadley has proposed that a network exhibits strong semantic systematicity when, as a result of training, it can assign appropriate meaning representations to novel sentences (both simple and embedded) which contain words in syntactic positions they did not occupy during training. The experience of researchers indicates that strong systematicity in any form is difficult to achieve in connectionist systems. Herein we describe a network which displays strong semantic systematicity in response to Hebbian, connectionist training. During training, two-thirds of all nouns are presented only in a single syntactic position (either as grammatical subject or object). Yet, during testing, the network correctly interprets thousands of sentences containing those nouns in novel positions. In addition, the network generalizes to novel levels of embedding. Successful training requires a corpus of about 1000 sentences, and network training is quite rapid. The architecture and learning algorithms are purely connectionist, but 'classical' insights are discernible in one respect, viz. that complex semantic representations spatially contain their semantic constituents. However, in other important respects, the architecture is distinctly non-classical.
120	connectionism	2005	Kurz, MJ; Stergiou, N	An artificial neural network that utilizes hip joint actuations to control bifurcations and chaos in a passive dynamic bipedal walking model	BIOLOGICAL CYBERNETICS	Chaos is a central feature of human locomotion and has been suggested to be a window to the control mechanisms of locomotion. In this investigation, we explored how the principles of chaos can be used to control locomotion with a passive dynamic bipedal walking model that has a chaotic gait pattern. Our control scheme was based on the scientific evidence that slight perturbations to the unstable manifolds of points in a chaotic system will promote the transition to new stable behaviors embedded in the rich chaotic attractor. Here we demonstrate that hip joint actuations during the swing phase can provide such perturbations for the control of bifurcations and chaos in a locomotive pattern. Our simulations indicated that systematic alterations of the hip joint actuations resulted in rapid transitions to any stable locomotive pattern available in the chaotic locomotive attractor. Based on these insights, we further explored the benefits of having a chaotic gait with a biologically inspired artificial neural network (ANN) that employed this chaotic control scheme. Remarkably, the ANN was quite robust and capable of selecting a hip joint actuation that rapidly transitioned the passive dynamic bipedal model to a stable gait embedded in the chaotic attractor. Additionally, the ANN was capable of using hip joint actuations to accommodate unstable environments and to overcome unforeseen perturbations. Our simulations provide insight on the advantage of having a chaotic locomotive system and provide evidence as to how chaos can be used as an advantageous control scheme for the nervous system.
121	connectionism	2001	Bickhard, MH	Why children don't have to solve the frame problems: Cognitive representations are not encodings	DEVELOPMENTAL REVIEW	Psychology and developmental psychology alike are dominated by a core assumption concerning the nature of representation, an assumption that representation has the nature of an encoding. I argue that this assumption is false and offer an alternative model of representation based on the pragmatics of action. Encodingism yields multitudinous and multifarious problems. problems which I have addressed in detail elsewhere. One of the central problems of encodingism, however. is that it creates a class of fatal problems collectively called ''the frame problems." I argue that the frame problems originate in the inherent requirement that encoding representations carry explicit content-if the content were not explicit, then the encoding would not encode anything and would not be a representation at all. These problems-and others, such that encodings cannot emerge, and, therefore, render development impossible-visit themselves on theories that are constructed within an encodingist set of presuppositions. Conversely, the interactive alternative model of representation that I offer has its own powerful consequences for development-the issues at stake are not trivial. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
122	connectionism	1992	HAMPSHIRE, JB; WAIBEL, A	THE META-PI NETWORK - BUILDING DISTRIBUTED KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATIONS FOR ROBUST MULTISOURCE PATTERN-RECOGNITION	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PATTERN ANALYSIS AND MACHINE INTELLIGENCE	We present a multinetwork connectionist classifier that forms distributed low-level knowledge representations for robust pattern recognition, given random feature vectors generated by multiple statistically distinct sources. The architecture comprises a number of source-dependent modules (i.e., each module is trained to classify patterns from one particular source) that are linked by a combinational superstructure. The superstructure adapts to the source being processed, integrating source-dependent classifications based on its internal assessment of the source model or combination of source models most likely to classify the input signal correctly. To train this combinational network, we have developed a new form of multiplicative connection, which we call the "Meta-Pi" connection; its function is closely aligned with predecessors described in [3], [29], and [31]. We illustrate how the Meta-Pi paradigm implements an adaptive Bayesian maximum a posteriori (MAP) classifier. We demonstrate its performance in the context of multispeaker phoneme recognition. In this task, the Meta-Pi superstructure combines speaker-dependent time-delay neural network (TDNN) modules to perform multispeaker /b, d, g/ phoneme recognition with speaker-dependent error rates (2 %). Finally, we apply the Meta-Pi architecture to a limited source-independent recognition task, illustrating its discrimination of a novel source. We demonstrate that it can adapt to the novel source (speaker), given five adaptation examples of each of the three phonemes; the resulting error rate of 7 % is approximately three times that of a typical source-dependent classifier. Longer term adaptation yields discrimination that is comparable with a speaker-dependent classifier of the novel source. We conclude with an assessment of our experimental results and their implications for larger real-world multisource and source-independent pattern recognition systems.
123	connectionism	2006	Stephan, A	The dual role of 'emergence' in the philosophy of mind and in cognitive science	SYNTHESE	The concept of emergence is widely used in both the philosophy of mind and in cognitive science. In the philosophy of mind it serves to refer to seemingly irreducible phenomena, in cognitive science it is often used to refer to phenomena not explicitly programmed. There is no unique concept of emergence available that serves both purposes.
124	connectionism	2004	Johnson, K	On the systematicity of language and thought	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
125	connectionism	2001	Friston, KJ; Price, CJ	Generative models, brain function and neuroimaging	SCANDINAVIAN JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	The representational capacity and inherent function of any neuron, neuronal population or cortical area in the brain is dynamic and context-sensitive. Functional integration, or interactions among brain systems, that employ driving (bottom up) and backward (top-down) connections, mediate this adaptive and contextual specialisation. A critical consequence is that neuronal responses, in any given cortical area, can represent different things at different times. This can have fundamental implications for the design of brain imaging experiments and the interpretation of their results. Our arguments are developed under generative models of brain function, where higher-level systems provide a prediction of the inputs to lower-level regions. Conflict between the two is resolved by changes in the higher-level representations, which are driven by the ensuing error in lower regions, until the mismatch is "cancelled". From this perspective the specialisation of any region is determined both by bottom-up driving inputs and by top-down predictions. Specialisation is therefore not an intrinsic property of any region but depends on both forward and backward connections with other areas. Because the latter have access to the context in which the inputs are generated they are in a position to modulate the selectivity or specialisation of lower areas. The implications for classical models (e.g., classical receptive fields in electrophysiology, classical specialisation in neuroimaging and connectionism in cognitive models) are severe and suggest these models may provide incomplete accounts of real brain architectures. Here we focus on the implications for cognitive neuroscience in the context of neuroimaging.
126	connectionism	2001	Berent, I; Everett, DL; Shimron, J	Do phonological representations specify variables? Evidence from the Obligatory Contour Principle	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Mental variables are central to symbolic accounts of cognition. Conversely, according to the pattern associator hypothesis, variables are obsolete. We examine the representation of variables by investigating the Obligatory Contour Principle (OCP, McCarthy, 1986) in Hebrew. The OCP constrains gemination in Hebrew roots. Gemination is well formed at the root's end (e.g., SMM), but not in its beginning (e.g., SSM). Roots and geminates, however, are variables; hence, according to the pattern associator view, the OCP is unrepresentable. Three experiments demonstrate that speakers are sensitive to the presence of root gemination and constrain its location. In forming words from novel biconsonantal roots, speakers prefer to reduplicate the root's final over its initial radical, and they rate such outputs as more acceptable. The avoidance or rejection of root-initial gemination is independent of its position in the word and is inexplicable by the statistical frequency of root tokens. Our results suggest that linguistic representations specify variables. Speakers' competence, however, is governed by violable constraints. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
127	connectionism	1997	Plunkett, K; KarmiloffSmith, A; Bates, E; Elman, JL; Johnson, MH	Connectionism and developmental psychology	JOURNAL OF CHILD PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHIATRY	What features of brain processing and neural development support linguistic and cognitive development in young children? To what extent are the profile and timing of development in young children determined by a preordained genetic programme? Does the environment play a crucial role in determining the patterns of change observed in children growing up? These questions have been of central concern to developmental psychologists for well over a century. Yet none of them have received answers that are generally accepted by the profession. This article reviews some recent computational modelling of developmental change in children that promises to contribute to a deeper understanding of the issues behind these questions. The modelling work exploits artificial neural networks that mimic some of the basic properties of neural processing in the brain. These networks involve densely connected webs of simple processing units that propagate and transform complex patterns of activity. When exposed to a training environment, they undergo a process of self-organisation, yielding information processing systems that support new forms of behaviour. The study of the dynamics of these systems and their learning capabilities promises to provide us with important clues as to the nature of the mechanisms underlying development in infants and young children.
128	connectionism	2011	Lord, RG; Shondrick, SJ	Leadership and knowledge: Symbolic, connectionist, and embodied perspectives	LEADERSHIP QUARTERLY	Although organizational practices and leadership processes are contingent upon knowledge acquisition and use, the changing conceptualizations of knowledge in cognitive science are often overlooked in research. Nevertheless, leadership research has inherently reflected shifting views of knowledge, transitioning from an emphasis on the classical symbolic view to connectionism and most recently to an embodied, embedded view of cognition. We argue that different leadership processes uniquely draw on these three types of knowledge and that excluding a connectionist or embodied, embedded view of knowledge creates an impoverished understanding of leadership. To illustrate this problem, we provide two follower-centric and two leader-centric examples of leadership processes which rely on the multiple forms of knowledge described herein: followers' attributional reasoning regarding leadership, followers' perceptions and memories of leaders, processes that generate leaders' behavioral choices, and finally, leaders' sensemaking/decision-making. We also discuss how these three perspectives could be integrated in future research to provide a richer understanding of leadership processes, particularly those based on collective, interactive leadership processes that emerge in groups of individuals. (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
129	connectionism	2002	Bowers, JS	Challenging the widespread assumption that connectionism and distributed representations go hand-in-hand	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	One of the central claims associated with the parallel distributed processing approach popularized by D.E. Rumelhart. J.L. McClelland and the PDP Research Group is that knowledge is coded in a distributed fashion, Localist representations within this perspective are widely rejected. It is important to note, however, that connectionist networks can learn localist representations and many connectionist models depend on localist coding for their functioning. Accordingly. a commitment to distributed representations Should be considered a specific theoretical claim regarding the structure of knowledge rather than a core principle, as often assumed. In this paper. it is argued that there are fundamental computational and empirical challenges that have not yet been addressed by distributed connectionist theories that are readily accommodated within localist approaches. This is highlighted in the context of modeling word and nonword naming, the domain in which some of the strongest claims have been made. It is shogun that Current PDP models provide a poor account of naming monosyllable items, and that distributed representations make it difficult for these models to scale LIP to more complex language phenomena. At the same time, models that learn localist representations are shown to hold promise in supporting many of the core reading and language functions on which PDP models fail. It is concluded that the common rejection of localist coding schemes within connectionist architectures is premature. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
130	connectionism	1999	Alexander, JA; Mozer, MC	Template-based procedures for neural network interpretation	NEURAL NETWORKS	Although neural networks often achieve impressive learning and generalization performance, their internal workings are typically all but impossible to decipher. This characteristic of the networks, their opacity, is one of the disadvantages of connectionism compared to more traditional, rule-oriented approaches to artificial intelligence. Without a thorough understanding of the network behavior, confidence in a system's results is lowered, and the transfer of learned knowledge to other processing systems - including humans - is precluded. Methods that address the opacity problem by casting network weights in symbolic terms are commonly referred to as rule extraction techniques. This work describes a principled approach to symbolic rule extraction from standard multilayer feedforward networks based on the notion of weight templates, parameterized regions of weight space corresponding to specific symbolic expressions. With an appropriate choice of representation, we show how template parameters may be efficiently identified and instantiated to yield the optimal match to the actual weights of a unit. Depending on the requirements of the application domain. the approach can accommodate n-ary disjunctions and conjunctions with O(k) complexity, simple n-of-m expressions with O(k(2)) complexity, or more general classes of recursive n-of-m expressions with O(k(L+2)) complexity, where ii is the number of inputs to an unit and L the recursion level of the expression class. Compared to other approaches in the literature, our method of rule extraction offers benefits in simplicity, computational performance, and overall flexibility. Simulation results on a variety of problems demonstrate the application of our procedures as well as the strengths and the weaknesses of our general approach. (C) 1999 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
131	connectionism	1997	Brown, GDA	Connectionism, phonology, reading, and regularity in developmental dyslexia	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Tests of the ''phonological deficit'' account of developmental dyslexia have produced apparently inconsistent results. We show how a connectionist approach to dyslexic reading development can resolve the paradox. A ''dyslexic'' model of reading was created by reducing the quality of the phonological representations available to the model during learning. The model behaved similarly to dyslexic children in that it had a selectively reduced ability to process nonwords, but showed normal effects of words' spelling-to-sound regularity. An experimental test of the model's predictions confirmed that dyslexic children perform similarly, in that they are impaired on irregular words to the same extent as nondyslexic children. It is concluded that developmentally dyslexic reading can indeed be understood in terms of impaired phonological representations and that the adoption of a modeling approach resolves an apparent paradox in the experimental literature. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
132	connectionism	1994	BODEN, MA	PRECIS OF THE CREATIVE MIND - MYTHS AND MECHANISMS	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	What is creativity?  One new idea may be creative, whereas another is merely new:  What's the difference?  And how is creativity possible?  These questions about human creativity can be answered, at least in outline, using computational concepts.  There are two broad types of creativity, improbabilist and impossibilist. Improbabilist creativity involves (positively valued) novel combinations of familiar ideas.  A deeper type involves METCS:  the mapping, exploration, and transformation of conceptual spaces.  It is impossibilist, in that ideas may be generated which - with respect to the particular conceptual space concerned - could not have been generated before.  (They are made possible by some transformation of the space.)  The more clearly conceptual spaces can be defined, the better we can identify creative ideas.  Defining conceptual spaces is done by musicologist, literary critics, and historians of art and science.  Humanist studies, rich in intuitive subtleties, can be complemented by the comparative rigour of a computational approach.  Computational modelling can help to define a space, and to show how it may be mapped, explored, and transformed. Impossibilist creativity can be thought of in ''classical'' AI terms, whereas connectionism illuminates improbabilist creativity.  Most AI models of creativity can only explore spaces, not transform them, because they have no self-reflexive maps enabling them to change their own rules.  A few, however, can do so.  A scientific understanding of creativity does not destroy our wonder at it, nor does it make creative ideas predictable.  Demystification does not imply dehumanization.
133	connectionism	2010	Risku, H	A cognitive scientific view on technical communication and translation Do embodiment and situatedness really make a difference?	TARGET-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF TRANSLATION STUDIES	This article provides a brief presentation of the development of some cognitive scientific views on technical communication and translation. I look in detail at one of the latest cognitive scientific trends, namely Situated and Embodied Cognition. According to this approach, humans are creative beings who are dependent on their physical and psychological circumstances. I provide a brief overview of the background to situated, embodied cognition, present some of its main concepts and conclude with a number of proposals about how findings in this field can be used to further develop research in Technical Communication and Translation Studies. In doing so, I argue that the new findings in cognitive science will necessarily change some of the common concepts and methodological traditions with regard to the actual text production process and competencies.
134	connectionism	2008	Dale, R	The possibility of a pluralist cognitive science	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	A case for a pluralistic approach to cognitive science is sketched. It is argued that cognitive scientists should take seriously the possibility that a single, unified framework for all of cognition is an unrealistic expectation for its diverse interdisciplinary goals and subject matter. A pluralistic approach instead seeks ways of integrating the multiple perspectives that have provided explanatory success in loosely interconnected sub-domains of cognitive phenomena. Research strategies recommended by this approach are discussed, with review of research currently carrying out such strategies and others that may hold promise for the future. The article ends with a discussion of seeking closer integration of the inquirer into consideration of which explanatory framework to choose. A systematic exploration of this transactional approach to cognitive science may grant coherence to pluralism even as it embraces diverse schemes of explanation.
135	connectionism	2004	Coltheart, M	Brain imaging, connectionism, and cognitive neuropsychology	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	0
136	connectionism	2002	Sawyer, RK	Emergence in psychology: Lessons from the history of non-reductionist science	HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Theories of emergence have had a longstanding influence on psychological thought. Emergentism rejects both reductionism and holism; emergentists are scientific materialists, and yet argue that reductionist explanation may not always be scientifically feasible. I begin by summarizing the history of emergence in psychology and sociology, from the mid-19th century through the mid-20th century. I then demonstrate several parallels between this history and contemporary psychology, focusing on two recent psychological movements: socioculturalism and connectionist cognitive science. Placed in historical context, both socioculturalism and connectionism are seen to be revivals of 19th and early 20th century emergentism. I then draw on this history to identify several unresolved issues facing socioculturalists and connectionists, and to suggest several promising paths for future theory. Copyright (C) 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel.
137	connectionism	2001	Beland, R; Mimouni, Z	Deep dyslexia in the two languages of an Arabic/French bilingual patient	COGNITION	We present a single case study of an Arabic/French bilingual patient, ZT, who, at the age of 32, suffered a cerebral vascular accident that resulted in a massive infarct in the left perisylvian region. ZT's reading displays the characteristics of the deep dyslexia syndrome in both languages, that is, production of semantic, visual, and morphological errors, and concreteness effect in reading aloud and impossibility of reading nonwords. In the first part of this paper, using a three-route model of reading, we account for the patient's performance by positing functional lesions, which affect the non-lexical, the semantic lexical and the non-semantic lexical routes of reading. Phonological priming observed in a cross-language visual lexical decision task indicates that implicit assembled phonological recoding is possible. The above lesions and implicit nonword reading characterize the output form of deep dyslexia. However, error distribution reveals dissociations across languages (e.g. the semantic error rate is higher in French whereas translations are more frequent in the Arabic testing) that cannot be accounted for within a three-route model. In the second part, extensions to Plant and Shallice's connectionist model (Cognitive Neuropsychology, 10 (5) (1993) 377) are proposed to account for the translinguistic errors observed. ZT's error distribution is compared to that obtained by Plant and Shallice after lesions had been applied at different locations through the 40-60 network. The overall syndrome of deep dyslexia found in both languages is explained as resulting from lesions along the direct (O --> I) and output (S --> Ip, Ip --> P) pathways of reading. Lesions along the output pathway mostly affecting S --> Ip connections in French and Ip --> P connections in Arabic account for discrepancies in ZT's error pattern across tasks and languages. This case study demonstrates the superiority of a connectionist approach for predicting the error pattern in deep dyslexia. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
138	connectionism	1999	Marcus, GF	Connectionism: with or without rules? Response to J.L. McClelland and D.C. Plaut (1999)	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	0
139	connectionism	1997	Roelofs, A	A case for nondecomposition in conceptually driven word retrieval	JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLINGUISTIC RESEARCH	Theories of lexical access in language use of a productive nature such as speaking, writing and verbal thinking differ in whether they assume that words are retrieved from memory in a conceptually decomposed or nondecomposed manner. Decomposition has been the received view for centuries, while nondecomposition is mostly not taken very seriously-undeservedly so, as I demonstrate in this paper. I review several theoretical objections that have traditionally been raised against nondecomposition and indicate how a nondecompositional approach can cope with them. Furthermore, several theoretical arguments in favor of nondecomposition are given. The issues concern the componential analysis of word meanings, the conceptual primitives, word definitions, the acquisition of word meaning, the conceptual dissection of messages, context dependence of word meaning, decomposition for syntactic encoding, word-to-phrase synonymy, hyperonymy, hyponymy, and the locus of decomposition. In addition, the major computational models of conceptually driven word retrieval proposed during the last few decades are evaluated both informally and by computer simulation. The decompositional models are shown to fail, whereas a specific nondecompositional model is shown to account for the difficulties. It is concluded that there are no evidential grounds for rejecting nondecomposition. On the contrary, for a theory of word retrieval there are, instead, good reasons to prefer nondecomposition to decomposition. Nondecomposition should be given more serious consideration in future work in the field.
140	connectionism	1995	COOPER, R; SHALLICE, T	SOAR AND THE CASE FOR UNIFIED THEORIES OF COGNITION	COGNITION	Despite the potential importance to cognitive psychology of unified theories no attempt has been made to assess concretely the methodological problems that such theorising produces. This paper addresses this issue of unified theorising, and in particular the arguments for unified theories put forward by Newell (1990). Close examination of these arguments reveals that Newell's approach does not adequately counter the difficulties which beset the grand theories of the 1930s, nor the problems of irrelevant specification which arise in modern computational psychological work. These difficulties do not prevent the development of unified theories, but they do pose serious problems, problems which it is argued can only be met by rigorous empirical testing together with extreme methodological sensitivity. The methodological concerns lead us to examine Soar, perhaps the most well-developed unified theory, from methodological, computational, and empirical perspectives. Our conclusions are that, whilst Soar represents an impressive body of research, its methodological foundations are insecure, it is ill specified as a computational/psychological theory, and under empirical testing it does not stand up to close scrutiny as a unified theory. The Soar research programme as it currently stands thus fails to meet the necessary methodological demands imposed by unified theorising.
141	connectionism	1993	BARNES, D; HAMPSON, PJ	STIMULUS EQUIVALENCE AND CONNECTIONISM - IMPLICATIONS FOR BEHAVIOR ANALYSIS AND COGNITIVE SCIENCE	PSYCHOLOGICAL RECORD	Recent developments in behavior analysis and cognitive science can be used to improve the uneasy relationship between these two approaches to psychological inquiry. Stimulus equivalence phenomena demonstrate the power of behavior analytic procedures to induce complex generative performances that are typically studied by cognitive scientists, while connectionism challenges the previously dominant symbol-based accounts of cognition and emphasizes the importance of environmental constraints and fundamental principles of learning as accounts of cognitive processing. The nature and possible contribution of stimulus equivalence to cognitive science are outlined, and connectionist simulations of complex equivalence phenomena are described. These simulations provide a possible rapprochement between behavior analysis and cognitive science.
142	connectionism	1991	KIRSH, D	FOUNDATIONS OF AI - THE BIG ISSUES	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The objective of research in the foundations of AI is to explore such basic questions as:  What is a theory in AI?  What are the most abstract assumptions underlying the competing visions of intelligence?  What are the basic arguments for and against each assumption?  In this essay I discuss five foundational issues:  (1) Core AI is the study of conceptualization and should begin with knowledge level theories.  (2) Cognition can be studied as a disembodied process without solving the symbol grounding problem.  (3) Cognition is nicely described in propositional terms.  (4) We can study cognition separately from learning.  (5) There is a single architecture underlying virtually all cognition.  I explain what each of these implies and present arguments from both outside and inside AI why each has been seen as right or wrong.
143	connectionism	2002	van Rooij, I; Bongers, RM; Haselager, WFG	A non-representational approach to imagined action	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study addresses the dynamical nature of a "representation-hungry" cognitive task involving an imagined action. In our experiment, participants were handed rods that systematically increased or decreased in length on subsequent trials. Participants were asked to judge whether or not they thought they could reach for a distant object with the hand-held rod. The results are in agreement with a dynamical model, extended from Tuller, Case, Ding, and Kelso (1994). The dynamical effects observed in this study suggest that predictive judgments regarding the possibility or impossibility of a certain action can be understood in terms of dynamically evolving basins of attraction instead of as depending on representational structures. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
144	connectionism	2000	Laakso, A; Cottrell, G	Content and cluster analysis: assessing representational similarity in neural systems	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	If connectionism is to be an adequate theory of mind, we must have a theory representation for neural networks that allows for individual differences in weighting and architecture while preserving sameness, or at least similarity, of content. In this paper we propose a procedure for measuring sameness of content of neural representations. We argue that the correct way to compare neural representations is through analysis of the distances between neural activations, and we present a method for doing so. We then use the technique to demonstrate empirically that different artificial neural networks trained by backpropagation on the same categorization task, even with different representational encodings of the input patterns and different numbers of hidden units, reach states in which representations at the hidden units are similar. We discuss how this work provides a rebuttal to Fodor and Lepore's critique of Paul Churchland's state space semantics.
145	connectionism	1998	Dean, J	Animats and what they can tell us	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Animats - autonomous robots or simulations of animals - and the animat approach represent the most recent attempt to comprehend the capacity of animals for autonomous generation of adaptive, intelligent behavior in complex, Changing environments. Motivated by perceived limitations in classical artificial intelligence (Al), the animat approach promulgates an alternative, bottom-up route to understanding intelligent behavior. Important tenets include: (1) that adaptive behavior is best understood by focusing on the interaction between a behaving individual and its environment, hence the interest in 'embodied' physical robots 'situated' in natural environments; (2) that specific abilities, 'behaviors', are more natural units of analysis and design than general, information-processing functions and world models; and (3) that high-level behaviors will emerge as systems composed of simple behavioral competences become more complex. Thus, animat research often begins with low-level sensorimotor abilities and then moves up towards higher, cognitive :functions. Both in analysis and in design, the animat approach borrows heavily from ethology, psychology, neurobiology and evolutionary biology, as well as from connectionism, for Al and robotics researchers, understanding the mechanisms behind adaptive behavior is secondary to creating them, but natural scientists can hope for tools and concepts to aid understanding of biological systems.
146	connectionism	1997	Edelman, S; DuvdevaniBar, S	Similarity, connectionism, and the problem of representation in vision	NEURAL COMPUTATION	A representational scheme under which the ranking between represented similarities is isomorphic to the ranking between the corresponding shape similarities can support perfectly correct shape classification because it preserves the clustering of shapes according to the natural kinds prevailing in the external world. This article discusses the computational requirements of representation that preserves similarity ranks and points out the relative straightforwardness of its connectionist implementation.
147	connectionism	2008	O'Grady, W	The emergentist program	LINGUA	This paper presents an overview of the diverse body of thought known as 'emergentism', as it is manifested in the study of language. It is suggested that a unifying theme of emergentist work is the rejection of inborn grammatical principles (Universal Grammar) in favor of more general mechanisms of cognition and learning. A variety of emergentist proposals are outlined and the general thrust of this work is compared to ideas that have recently been put forward within the Minimalist Program. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
148	connectionism	2006	Perez, M	Artificial neural networks and bankruptcy forecasting: a state of the art	NEURAL COMPUTING & APPLICATIONS	The use of neural networks in finance began by the end of the 1980s and by the beginning of the 1990s, it developed specific applications related to forecasting on the failure of companies. In order to highlight the evolution of this research stream, we have retained and analysed 30 studies in which the authors use neural networks to solve companies' classification problems (healthy and failing firms). This review of all these works gives us the opportunity to stress upon future trends in bankruptcy forecasting research.
149	connectionism	2001	Berent, I; Shimron, J; Vaknin, V	Phonological constraints on reading: Evidence from the obligatory contour principle	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Hebrew frequently manifests gemination in its roots, but strictly constrains its position: Root-final gemination is extremely frequent (e.g.. bbd), whereas root-initial gemination is rare (e.g., bdd). This asymmetry is explained by a universal constraint on phonological representations. the Obligatory Contour Principle (McCarthy. 1986). Three experiments examined whether this phonological constraint affects performance in a lexical decision task. The rejection of nonwords generated from novel roots with root-initial gemination (e.g.. Ki-KuS) was significantly faster than roots with final gemination controls (e.g.. Si-KuK). The emergence of this asymmetry regardless of the position of geminates in the word implicates a constraint on root, rather than simply word structure, Our results further indicate that speakers are sensitive to the structure of geminate bigrams, i.e.. their identity. Nonwords formed from roots with Anal gemination (e.g.. Si-KuK) were significantly more difficult to reject than foils generated from frequency-matched no gemination controls (e.g., Ni-KuS). Speakers are thus sensitive to the identity of geminates and constrain their location in the root. These findings suggest that the representations assembled in reading a deep orthography are structured linguistic entities, constrained by phonological competence. (C) 2001 Academic Press.
150	connectionism	1992	HALPERIN, JRP; DUNHAM, DW; YE, S	SOCIAL-ISOLATION INCREASES SOCIAL DISPLAY AFTER PRIMING IN BETTA-SPLENDENS BUT DECREASES AGGRESSIVE READINESS	BEHAVIOURAL PROCESSES	We socially isolated adult, male Siamese fighting fish for 0 to 7 weeks but avoided sensory deprivation, and then measured aggressive display as the fish responded to a series of novel models. Isolates displayed much more strongly than non-isolates to the last model of the series, and display intensity became monotonically stronger with longer social isolation. By contrast, display to the first model seen after isolation was weaker the longer the social isolation. A second experiment compared responses of fish after three weeks during which controls displayed to a conspecific for two minutes every two days, while isolates saw a complex visual stimulus which did not release display. Again, isolates had depressed display readiness, but higher display rates once they were primed. This result supports the hypothesis that social isolation has two effects on aggressive display in Betta, causing decreasing readiness to display, but leading to greater display rates once fish are 'primed'. We discuss two models which predict these phenomena, and show that one of them suggests a new understanding of the function of motivational increases when aggression is 'dammed up'. Methodological issues relevant for examining the rodent behavior literature in the light of the new model are discussed.
151	connectionism	2007	Mareschal, D; Thomas, MSC	Computational modeling in developmental psychology	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION	This manuscript surveys computational modeling efforts by researchers in developmental psychology. Developmental psychology is ready to blossom into a modern science that focuses on causal mechanistic explanations of development rather than just describing and classifying behaviors. Computational modeling is the key to this process. However, to be effective, models must not only mimic observed data. They must also be transparent, grounded, and plausible to be accepted by the developmental psychology community. Connectionist model provides one such example. Many developmental features of typical and atypical perception, cognition, and language have been modeled using connectionist methods. Successful models are closely tied to the details of existing empirical studies and make concrete testable predictions. The success of such a project relies on the close collaboration of computational scientists with empirical psychologists.
152	connectionism	1996	Copeland, BJ; Proudfoot, D	On Alan Turing's anticipation of connectionism	SYNTHESE	It is not widely realised that Turing was probably the first person to consider building computing machines out of simple, neuron-like elements connected together into networks in a largely random manner. Turing called his networks 'unorganised machines'. By the application of what he described as 'appropriate interference, mimicking education' an unorganised machine can be trained to perform any task that a Turing machine can carry out, provided the number of 'neurons' is sufficient. Turing proposed simulating both the behaviour of the network and the training process by means of a computer program. We outline Turing's connectionist project of 1948.
153	connectionism	1994	BECHTEL, W	LEVELS OF DESCRIPTION AND EXPLANATION IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	MINDS AND MACHINES	The notion of levels has been widely used in discussions of cognitive science, especially in discussions of the relation of connectionism to symbolic modeling of cognition. I argue that many of the notions of levels employed are problematic for this purpose, and develop an alternative notion grounded in the framework of mechanistic explanation. By considering the source of the analogies underlying both symbolic modeling and connectionist modeling, I argue that neither is likely to provide an adequate analysis of processes at the level at which cognitive theories attempt to function: One is drawn from too low a level, the other from too high a level. If there is a distinctly cognitive level, then we still need to determine what are the basic organizational principles at that level.
154	connectionism	1992	MILLAN, JDR; TORRAS, C	A REINFORCEMENT CONNECTIONIST APPROACH TO ROBOT PATH FINDING IN NON-MAZE-LIKE ENVIRONMENTS	MACHINE LEARNING	This paper presents a reinforcement connectionist system which finds and learns the suitable situation-action rules so as to generate feasible paths for a point robot in a 2D environment with circular obstacles. The basic reinforcement algorithm is extended with a strategy for discovering stable solution paths. Equipped with this strategy and a powerful codification scheme, the path-finder (i) learns quickly, (ii) deals with continuous-valued inputs and outputs, (iii) exhibits good noise-tolerance and generalization capabilities, (iv) copes with dynamic environments, and (v) solves an instance of the path finding problem with strong performance demands.
155	connectionism	2014	Rabovsky, M; McRae, K	Simulating the N400 ERP component as semantic network error: Insights from a feature-based connectionist attractor model of word meaning	COGNITION	The N400 ERP component is widely used in research on language and semantic memory. Although the component's relation to semantic processing is well-established, the computational mechanisms underlying N400 generation are currently unclear (Kutas & Federmeier, 2011). We explored the mechanisms underlying the N400 by examining how a connectionist model's performance measures covary with N400 amplitudes. We simulated seven N400 effects obtained in human empirical research. Network error was consistently in the same direction as N400 amplitudes, namely larger for low frequency words, larger for words with many features, larger for words with many orthographic neighbors, and smaller for semantically related target words as well as repeated words. Furthermore, the repetition-induced decrease was stronger for low frequency words, and for words with many semantic features. In contrast, semantic activation corresponded less well with the N400. Our results suggest an interesting relation between N400 amplitudes and semantic network error. In psychological terms, error values in connectionist models have been conceptualized as implicit prediction error, and we interpret our results as support for the idea that N400 amplitudes reflect implicit prediction error in semantic memory (McClelland, 1994). (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
156	connectionism	2010	Herrero, A; Corchado, E; Saiz, L; Abraham, A	DIPKIP: A CONNECTIONIST KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TO IDENTIFY KNOWLEDGE DEFICITS IN PRACTICAL CASES	COMPUTATIONAL INTELLIGENCE	This study presents a novel, multidisciplinary research project entitled DIPKIP (data acquisition, intelligent processing, knowledge identification and proposal), which is a Knowledge Management (KM) system that profiles the KM status of a company. Qualitative data is fed into the system that allows it not only to assess the KM situation in the company in a straightforward and intuitive manner, but also to propose corrective actions to improve that situation. DIPKIP is based on four separate steps. An initial "Data Acquisition" step, in which key data is captured, is followed by an "Intelligent Processing" step, using neural projection architectures. Subsequently, the "Knowledge Identification" step catalogues the company into three categories, which define a set of possible theoretical strategic knowledge situations: knowledge deficit, partial knowledge deficit, and no knowledge deficit. Finally, a "Proposal" step is performed, in which the "knowledge processes"-creation/acquisition, transference/distribution, and putting into practice/updating-are appraised to arrive at a coherent recommendation. The knowledge updating process (increasing the knowledge held and removing obsolete knowledge) is in itself a novel contribution. DIPKIP may be applied as a decision support system, which, under the supervision of a KM expert, can provide useful and practical proposals to senior management for the improvement of KM, leading to flexibility, cost savings, and greater competitiveness. The research also analyses the future for powerful neural projection models in the emerging field of KM by reviewing a variety of robust unsupervised projection architectures, all of which are used to visualize the intrinsic structure of high-dimensional data sets. The main projection architecture in this research, known as Cooperative Maximum-Likelihood Hebbian Learning (CMLHL), manages to capture a degree of KM topological ordering based on the application of cooperative lateral connections. The results of two real-life case studies in very different industrial sectors corroborated the relevance and viability of the DIPKIP system and the concepts upon which it is founded.
157	connectionism	2005	Thal, DJ; Miller, S; Carlson, J; Vega, MM	Nonword repetition and language development in 4-year-old children with and without a history of early language delay	JOURNAL OF SPEECH LANGUAGE AND HEARING RESEARCH	Purpose: This study examined the usefulness of the Nonword Repetition Test (NRT; -year-old children and the relationship Dolloghon & T. F. Campbell, 1998) with,4 among the NRT, language, and other aspects of mental processing. Method: The NRT was administered to 64 children at 4 years of age; 44 had a history of typical language development (HTD), and 20 had a history of language delay (HLD) at 16 months of age. Study I compared methods of scoring phoneme errors to A, determine whether the NRT was appropriate for this age group. Study 2 examined,, whether the NRT differentiated HTD from HLD. Study 3 examined the relations among score, on the NRT and standardized tests of language and mental processing. Results: The NRT was found to be appropriate for 4-year-old children. Although all children had normal language abilities at the time of the study, the NRT (and several aspects of language and mental processing) differentiated between HTD and HLD. Relations among the NRT and other measures of language and mental processing were different from those previously reported, an unexpected finding that is inconsistent with traditional accounts of working memory and its relation to language development. Potential explanations are explored, and some directions for future research are suggested.
158	connectionism	2005	Fiori, S	Nonlinear complex-valued extensions of Hebbian learning: An essay	NEURAL COMPUTATION	The Hebbian paradigm is perhaps the best-known unsupervised learning theory in connectionism. It has inspired wide research activity in the artificial neural network field because it embodies some interesting properties such as locality and the capability of being applicable to the basic weight-and-surn structure of neuron models. The plain Hebbian principle, however, also presents some inherent theoretical limitations that make it impractical in most cases. Therefore, modifications of the basic Hebbian learning paradigm have been proposed over the past 20 years in order to design profitable signal and data processing algorithms. Such modifications led to the principal component analysis type class of learning rules along with their nonlinear extensions. The aim of this review is primarily to present part of the existing fragmented material in the field of principal component learning within a unified view and contextually to motivate and present extensions of previous works on Hebbian learning to complex-weighted linear neural networks. This work benefits from previous studies on linear signal decomposition by artificial neural networks, nonquadratic component optimization and reconstruction error definition, neural parameters adaptation by constrained optimization of learning criteria of complex-valued arguments, and orthonormality expression via the insertion of topological elements in the networks or by modifying the network learning criterion. In particular, the learning principles considered here and their analysis concern complex-valued principal/minor component/subspace linear/nonlinear rules for complex-weighted neural structures, both feedforward and laterally connected.
159	connectionism	2003	Smith, LB; Samuelson, LK	Different is good: connectionism and dynamic systems theory are complementary emergentist approaches to development	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Connectionist and dynamic systems approaches to development are similar in that they are both emergentist theories that take a very different perspective from more traditional symbolic systems. Moreover, they are both based on similar mathematical principles. Nevertheless, connectionism and dynamic systems differ in the approach they take to the study of development. We argue that differences between connectionist and dynamic systems approaches in terms of the basic components of the models, what they see as the object of study, how they view the nature of knowledge and their notions of developmental change mean that they each stand to make different and unique contributions to a more complete theory of development. We present an example from our work on how children learn to learn words that illustrates the complementary nature of connectionist and dynamic systems theories.
160	connectionism	2000	Roy, A	On connectionism, rule extraction, and brain-like learning	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON FUZZY SYSTEMS	There is a growing body of work that shows that both fuzzy and symbolic rule systems can be implemented using neural networks. This body of work also shows that these fuzzy and symbolic rules can be retrieved from these networks, once they have been learned by procedures that generally fall under the category of rule extraction. The paper argues that the idea of rule extraction front a neural network involves certain procedures, specifically the reading of parameters from a network, that are not allowed by the connectionist framework that these neural networks are based on. It argues that such rule extraction procedures imply a greater freedom and latitude about the internal mechanisms of the brain than is permitted by connectionism, but that such latitude is permitted by the recently proposed control theoretic paradigm for the brain. The control theoretic paradigm basically suggests that there are parts of the brain that control other parts and has far less restrictions on the kind of procedures that can be called "brain like." The paper shows that this control theoretic paradigm is supported by new evidence from neuroscience about the role of neuromodulators rind neurotransmitters in the brain. In addition, it shows that the control theoretic paradigm is also used in connectionist algorithms, although never acknowledged explicitly, The paper suggests that far better learning and rule extraction algorithms can be developed using these control theoretic notions and they would be consistent with the more recent understanding of how the brain works and learns.
161	connectionism	1997	Hampton, JA	Associative and similarity-based processes in categorization decisions	MEMORY & COGNITION	Two experiments were directed at distinguishing associative and similarity-based accounts of systematic differences in categorization time for different items in natural categories. Experiment I investigated the correlation of categorization time with three measures of instance centrality in a category. Production frequency (PF), rated typicality, and familiarity from category norms for British participants (Hampton & Gardiner, 1983) were used to predict mean categorization times for 531 words in 12 semantic categories. PF and typicality (but not familiarity) were found to make significant and independent contributions to categorization time. Error rates were related only to typicality (apart from errors made to ambiguous or unknown items). Experiment 2 provided a further dissociation of PF and typicality. Manipulating the difficulty of the task through the relatedness of the false items interacted primarily with the effect of typicality on categorization time, whereas, under conditions of easy discrimination, prior exposure to the category exemplars affected only the contribution of PF to the decision time. The dissociation of typicality and PF measures is interpreted as providing evidence that speeded categorization involves both retrieval of associations indexed by PF and a similarity-based decision process indexed by typicality.
162	connectionism	1997	Parisi, D	An artificial life approach to language	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The aim of the paper is to show that an Artificial Life approach to language tends to change the research agenda on language which has been shared by both the symbolic paradigm and classical connectionism. Artificial Life Neural Networks (ALNNs) are different from classical connectionist networks because they interact with an independent physical environment; are subject to evolutionary, developmental, and cultural change, and not only to learning; and are parr of organisms that have a physical body, have a life (are born, develop, and die), and are members of genetic and, sometimes, cultural populations. Using ALNNs to study language shifts the emphasis from research on linguistic forms and laboratory-like tasks to the investigation of the emergence and transmission of language, the use of language, its role in cognition, and language as a populational rather than as an individual phenomenon. (C) 1997 Academic Press.
163	connectionism	1993	CHALMERS, DJ	CONNECTIONISM AND COMPOSITIONALITY - WHY FODOR AND PYLYSHYN WERE WRONG	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper offers a theoretical and an experimental perspective on the relationship between connectionist and classical (symbol-processing) models. A structural flaw in Fodor and Pylyshyn's argument against connectionism is pointed out. if, in fact, a part of their argument is valid, then it establishes a conclusion quire different from that which they intend, a conclusion which is demonstrably false. The source of this flaw is traced to an underestimation of the differences between localist and distributed representation. Fodor and McLaughlin have claimed that distributed representations cannot support systematic operations, or that if they can, then they will be mere implementations of traditional ideas. This paper presents experimental evidence against this conclusion: distributed representations can be used to support direct structure-sensitive operations, in a manner quite unlike the classical approach. Finally, it is argued that even if Fodor and Pylyshyn's argument that connectionist models of compositionality must be mere implementations were correct, this would still not be a serious argument against connectionism as a theory of mind.
164	connectionism	2005	Bechtel, W	The challenge of characterizing operations in the mechanisms underlying behavior	JOURNAL OF THE EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS OF BEHAVIOR	Neuroscience and cognitive science seek to explain behavioral regularities in terms of underlying mechanisms. An important element of a mechanistic explanation is a characterization of the operations of the parts of the mechanism. The challenge in characterizing such operations is illustrated by an example from the history of physiological chemistry in which sonic investigators tried to characterize the internal operations in the same terms as the overall physiological system while others appealed to elemental chemistry. In order for biochemistry to become successful, researchers had to identify a new level of operations involving operations over molecular groups. Existing attempts at mechanistic explanation of behavior are in a situation comparable to earlier approaches to physiological chemistry, drawing their inspiration either from overall psychology activities or from low-level neural processes. Successful mechanistic explanations of behavior require the discovery of the appropriate component operations. Such discovery is a daunting challenge but one on which success will be beneficial to both behavioral scientists and cognitive and neuroscientists.
165	connectionism	1997	Fodor, J	Connectionism and the problem of systematicity (continued): Why Smolensky's solution still doesn't work	COGNITION	Paul Smolensky has recently announced that the problem of explaining the compositionality of concepts within a connectionist framework is solved in principle. Mental representations are vectors over the activity states of connectionist ''units'', but the vectors encode Classical trees, whose structural properties in turn ''acausally'' explain the facts of compositionality. This sounds suspiciously like the offer of a free lunch, and it turns out, upon examination, that there is nothing to it.
166	connectionism	1991	SIRELSON, V; BRODHEIM, E	A COMPUTER-PLANNING MODEL FOR BLOOD-PLATELET PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION	COMPUTER METHODS AND PROGRAMS IN BIOMEDICINE	We consider a class of policies for stocking hospital blood banks with units of random donor platelet concentrate ('Platelets') based upon scheduled daily deliveries from a regional blood center to replenish the platelet inventory to a fixed 'base stock' level. The measures of interest are the 'shortage rate' (the proportion of days for which the on-hand inventory at the hospital blood bank is insufficient to meet the demand) and the 'outdate rate' (the proportion of total units shipped which are not transfused within the usable life span of 5 days). Our principal results give a predictive model which relates the base stock level to the shortage rate and outdate rate. Our model uses only the mean daily demand as a parameter. It provides a basis to unify the results from other studies which have demonstrated improvements in platelet inventory management in particular hospitals and blood centers.
167	connectionism	2009	McLaughlin, BP	Systematicity redux	SYNTHESE	One of the main challenges that Jerry Fodor and Zenon Pylyshyn (Cognition 28: 3-71, 1988) posed for any connectionist theory of cognitive architecture is to explain the systematicity of thought without implementing a Language of Thought (LOT) architecture. The systematicity challenge presents a dilemma: if connectionism cannot explain the systematicity of thought, then it fails to offer an adequate theory of cognitive architecture; and if it explains the systematicity of thought by implementing a LOT architecture, then it fails to offer an alternative to the LOT hypothesis. Given that thought is systematic, connectionism can offer an adequate alternative to the LOT hypothesis only if it can meet the challenge. Although some critics tried to meet the challenge, others argued that it need not be met since thought is not in fact systematic; and some claimed not to even understand the claim that thought is systematic. I do not here examine attempts to answer the challenge. Instead, I defend the challenge itself by explicating the notion of systematicity in a way that I hope makes clear that thought is indeed systematic, and so that to offer an adequate alternative to the LOT hypothesis, connectionism must meet the challenge.
168	connectionism	2003	Eliasmith, C	Moving beyond metaphors: Understanding the mind for what it is	JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY	0
169	connectionism	2003	Sturt, P; Costa, F; Lombardo, V; Frasconi, P	Learning first-pass structural attachment preferences with dynamic grammars and recursive neural networks	COGNITION	One of the central problems in the study of human language processing is ambiguity resolution: how do people resolve the extremely pervasive ambiguity of the language they encounter? One possible answer to this question is suggested by experience-based models, which claim that people typically resolve ambiguities in a way which has been successful in the past. In order to determine the course of action that has been "successful in the past" when faced with some ambiguity, it is necessary to generalize over past experience. In this paper, we will present a computational experience-based model, which learns to generalize over linguistic experience from exposure to syntactic structures in a corpus. The model is a hybrid system, which uses symbolic grammars to build and represent syntactic structures, and neural networks to rank these structures on the basis of its experience. We use a dynamic grammar, which provides a very tight correspondence between grammatical derivations and incremental processing, and recursive neural networks, which are able to deal with the complex hierarchical structures produced by the grammar. We demonstrate that the model reproduces a number of the structural preferences found in the experimental psycho-linguistics literature, and also performs well on unrestricted text. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
170	connectionism	2001	Frixione, M	Tractable competence	MINDS AND MACHINES	In the study of cognitive processes, limitations on computational resources (computing time and memory space) are usually considered to be beyond the scope of a theory of competence, and to be exclusively relevant to the study of performance. Starting from considerations derived from the theory of computational complexity, in this paper I argue that there are good reasons for claiming that some aspects of resource limitations pertain to the domain of a theory of competence.
171	connectionism	1996	Feldman, J; Lakoff, G; Bailey, D; Narayanan, S; Regier, T; Stolcke, A	L(0) - The first five years of an automated language acquisition project	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	The L(0) project at ICSI and UC Berkeley attempts to combine not only vision and natural language modelling, but also learning. The original task was put forward in (Feldman et al. 1990a) as a touchstone task for AI and cognitive science. The task is to build a system that can learn the appropriate fragment of any natural language from sentence-picture pairs. We have not succeeded in building such a system, but we have made considerable progress on component subtasks and this has led in a number of productive and surprising directions.
172	connectionism	1993	MCLAUGHLIN, BP	THE CONNECTIONISM/CLASSICISM BATTLE TO WIN SOULS	PHILOSOPHICAL STUDIES	0
173	connectionism	2008	Piccinini, G	Some neural networks compute, others don't	NEURAL NETWORKS	I address whether neural networks perform computations in the sense Of Computability theory and computer science. I explicate and defend the following theses. (1) Many neural networks compute-they perform computations. (2) Some neural networks compute in a classical way. Ordinary digital computers, which are very large networks of logic gates, belong in this class of neural networks. (3) Other neural networks compute hi a non-classical way. (4) Yet other neural networks do not perform computations. Brains may well fall into this last class. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
174	connectionism	2005	Braber, N; Patterson, K; Ellis, K; Ralph, MAL	The relationship between phonological and morphological deficits in Broca's aphasia: Further evidence from errors in verb inflection	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	A previous study of 10 patients with Broca's aphasia demonstrated that the advantage for producing the past tense of irregular over regular verbs exhibited by these patients was eliminated when the two sets of past-tense forms were matched for phonological complexity (Bird, Lambon Ralph, Seidenberg, McClelland, & Patterson, 2003). The interpretation given was that a generalised phonological impairment was central to the patients' language deficits, including their poor performance on regular past tense verbs. The current paper provides further evidence in favour of this hypothesis, on the basis of a detailed analysis of the errors produced by these same 10 patients in reading, repetition, and sentence completion for a large number of regular, irregular, and nonce verbs. The patients' predominant error types in all tasks and for all verb types were close and distant phonologically related responses. The balance between close and distant errors varied along three continua: the severity of the patient (more distant errors produced by the more severely impaired patients); the difficulty of the task (more distant errors in sentence completion > reading > repetition); the difficulty of the item (more distant errors for novel word forms than real verbs). A position analysis for these phonologically related errors revealed that vowels were most likely to be preserved and that consonant onsets and offsets were equally likely to be incorrect. Critically, the patients' errors exhibited a strong tendency to simplify the phonological form of the target. These results are consistent with the notion that the patients' relatively greater difficulty with regular past tenses reflects a phonological impairment that is sensitive to the complexity of spoken forms. (c) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
175	connectionism	2005	Dennis, S	A memory-based theory of verbal cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The syntagmatic paradigmatic model is a distributed, memory-based account of verbal processing. Built on a Bayesian interpretation of string edit theory, it characterizes the control of verbal cognition as the retrieval of sets of syntagmatic and paradigmatic constraints from sequential and relational long-term memory and the resolution of these constraints in working memory. Lexical information is extracted directly from text using a version of the expectation maximization algorithm. In this article, the model is described and then illustrated on a number of phenomena, including sentence processing, semantic categorization and rating, short-term serial recall, and analogical and logical inference. Subsequently, the model is used to answer questions about a corpus of tennis news articles taken from the Internet. The model's success demonstrates that it is possible to extract propositional information from naturally occurring text without employing a grammar, defining a set of heuristics, or specifying a priori a set of semantic roles.
176	connectionism	1999	Kennepohl, S	Toward a cultural neuropsychology: An alternative view and a preliminary model	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Any integrated theory of mind and behavior must address the dynamic interaction between neurobiological and sociocultural systems as possible causes for human action. Newer findings within the behavioral neurosciences have pointed to the brain's exceptional plasticity and flexibility and suggest that one's surroundings, including one's cultural environment, may directly influence the way the human nervous system becomes organized. In this paper, a preliminary connectionist model of culture-brain interaction is proposed in an effort to illustrate the possible contribution of cultural factors to the development of the individual human brain, (C) 1999 Academic Press.
177	connectionism	1994	HORGAN, T; TIENSON, J	A NONCLASSICAL FRAMEWORK FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	SYNTHESE	David Marr provided a useful framework for theorizing about cognition within classical, AI-style cognitive science, in terms of three levels of description:  the levels of (i) cognitive function, (ii) algorithm and (iii) physical implementation.  We generalize this framework:  (i) cognitive state transitions, (ii) mathematical/functional design and (iii) physical implementation or realization.  Specifying the middle, design level to be the theory of dynamical systems yields a nonclassical, alternative framework that suits (but is not committed to) connectionism.  We consider how a brain's (or a network's) being a dynamical system might be the key both to its realizing various essential features of cognition - productivity, systematicity, structure-sensitive processing, syntax - and also to a non-classical solution of (frame-type) problems plaguing classical cognitive science.
178	connectionism	2011	Ashby, FG; Helie, S	A tutorial on computational cognitive neuroscience: Modeling the neurodynamics of cognition	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Computational Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) is a new field that lies at the intersection of computational neuroscience, machine learning, and neural network theory (i.e., connectionism). The ideal CCN model should not make any assumptions that are known to contradict the current neuroscience literature and at the same time provide good accounts of behavior and at least some neuroscience data (e.g., single-neuron activity, fMRI data). Furthermore, once set, the architecture of the CCN network and the models of each individual unit should remain fixed throughout all applications. Because of the greater weight they place on biological accuracy. CCN models differ substantially from traditional neural network models in how each individual unit is modeled, how learning is modeled, and how behavior is generated from the network. A variety of CCN solutions to these three problems are described. A real example of this approach is described, and some advantages and limitations of the CCN approach are discussed. (c) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
179	connectionism	2006	Van Overwalle, F; Heylighen, F	Talking nets: A multiagent connectionist approach to communication and trust between individuals	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A multiagent connectionist model is proposed that consists of a collection of individual recurrent networks that communicate with each other and, as such, is a network of networks. The individual recurrent networks simulate the process of information uptake, integration, and memorization within individual agents, and the communication of beliefs and opinions between agents is propagated along connections between the individual networks. A crucial aspect in belief updating based on information from other agents is the trust in the information provided. In the model, trust is determined by the consistency with the receiving agents' existing beliefs and results in changes of the connections between individual networks, called trust weights. These weights lead to a selective propagation and thus to the filtering out of less reliable information, and they implement H. P. Grice's (1975) maxims of quality and quantity in communication. The unique contribution of communicative mechanisms beyond intrapersonal processing of individual networks was explored in simulations of key phenomena involving persuasive communication and polarization, lexical acquisition, spreading of stereotypes and rumors, and a lack of sharing unique information in group decisions.
180	connectionism	2003	Elman, J	Development: it's about time	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Traditionally, research has been defined as being about development if it focuses on behaviors that occur during development, without reference either to what precedes or follows, or - more importantly - the mechanisms that drive change. This perspective has been challenged by two new approaches: dynamical systems, and connectionism, both of which have as core goals the explanation of change. Interestingly, these approaches have also been seen by many as being at odds with one another, for reasons that are in part valid, and in part superficial. Recent developments in both approaches suggest that a convergence is occurring, although much remains to be done before a true. unification can take place.
181	connectionism	2001	Rondal, JA	Language in mental retardation: Individual and syndromic differences, and neurogenetic variation	SWISS JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	Predominantly non-etiological conceptions have dominated the field of mental retardation (MR) since the discovery of the genetic etiology of Down syndrome (DS) in the sixties. However, contemporary approaches are becoming more etiologically oriented. Important differences across MR syndromes of genetic origin are being documented, particularly in the cognition and language domains, differences not explicable in terms of psychometric level. motivation, or other dimensions. This paper highlights the major difficulties observed in the oral language development of individuals with genetic syndromes of mental retardation. The extent of inter- and with-in-syndrome variability are evaluated. Possible brain underpinnings of the behavioural differences are envisaged. Cases-of atypically favourable language development in MR individuals are also summarized and explanatory variables discussed. It is suggested that differences in brain architectures, originating in neurological development. and having genetic origins, may largely explain the syndromic as well as the individual within-syndrome variability documented. Lastly, the major implications of the above points for current debates about modularity and developmental connectionism are spelt out.
182	connectionism	2000	Morris, WC; Cottrell, GW; Elman, J	A connectionist simulation of the empirical acquisition of grammatical relations	HYBRID NEURAL SYSTEMS	This paper proposes an account of the acquisition of grammatical relations using the basic concepts of connectionism and a construction-based theory of grammar. Many previous accounts of first-language acquisition assume that grammatical relations (e.g., the grammatical subject and object of a sentence) and linking rules are universal and innate; this is necessary to provide a first set of assumptions in the target language to allow deductive processes to test hypotheses and/or set parameters. In contrast to this approach, we propose that grammatical relations emerge rather late in the language-learning process. Our theoretical proposal is based on two observations. First, early production of childhood speech is formulaic and becomes systematic in a progressive fashion. Second, grammatical relations themselves are family-resemblance categories that cannot be described by a single parameter. This leads to the notion that grammatical relations are learned in a bottom up fashion. Combining this theoretical position with the notion that the main purpose of language is communication, we demonstrate the emergence of the notion of "subject" in a simple recurrent network that learns to map from sentences to semantic roles. We analyze the hidden layer representations of the emergent subject, and demonstrate that these representations correspond to a radially-structured category. We also claim that the pattern of generalization and undergeneralization demonstrated by the network conforms to what we expect from the data on children's generalizations.
183	connectionism	1994	CULLINAN, VA; BARNES, D; HAMPSON, PJ; LYDDY, F	A TRANSFER OF EXPLICITLY AND NONEXPLICITLY TRAINED SEQUENCE RESPONSE THROUGH EQUIVALENCE-RELATIONS - AN EXPERIMENTAL DEMONSTRATION AND CONNECTIONIST MODEL	PSYCHOLOGICAL RECORD	Eight college students were trained in a sequential response to two nonsense syllable pairs B1-B2 and B2-B3.  They were then tested to determine whether an untrained, novel three-response sequence emerged as a result of the spontaneous combination of the two explicitly trained two-response sequences (i.e., B1-B2 + B2-B3 becomes B1-B2-B3).  All subjects demonstrated this three-response sequence performance.  Four experimental subjects were then trained in a set of conditional discriminations, using a matching-to-sample procedure (i.e., A1-B1, A1-C1, A2-B2, A2-C2, A3-B3, A3-C3).  All four subsequently displayed the formation of three equivalence relations in nonreinforced testing (i.e., A1-B1-C1, A2-B2-C2, A3-B3-C3).  This was followd by testing for a transfer, through equivalence, of the sequential responses, for both nonsense syllable pairs and triples.  All experimental subjects showed this transfer (i.e., C1-C2, C2-C3, and C1-C2-C3).  The control subjects, however, who had not received the conditional discrimination training and equivalence testing, all failed to show this transfer.  A connectionist model was then designed to simulate the obtained data.  After suitable explicit training on up to four stimulus sets, the model was capable of correctly responding to the sequence, equivalence, and transfer tests, after exposure to only the training stages of a fifth set.  The wider implications of connectionism for behavior analysis are also considered.
184	connectionism	2008	Chartier, S; Renaud, P; Boukadoum, M	A nonlinear dynamic artificial neural network model of memory	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Nonlinearity and dynamics in psychology are found in various domains such as neuroscience, cognitive science, human development, etc. However, the models that have been proposed are mostly of a computational nature and ignore dynamics. In those models that do include dynamic properties, only fixed points are used to store and retrieve information, leaving many principles of nonlinear dynamic systems (NDS) aside; for instance, chaos is often perceived as a nuisance. This paper considers a nonlinear dynamic artificial neural network (NDANN) that implements NDS principles while also complying with general neuroscience constraints. After a theoretical presentation, simulation results will show that the model can exhibit multi-valued, fixed-point, region-constrained attractors and aperiodic (including chaotic) behaviors. Because the capabilities of NDANN include the modeling of spatiotemporal chaotic activities, it may be an efficient tool to help bridge the gap between biological memory neural models and behavioral memory models. Crown Copyright (C) 2007 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
185	connectionism	1999	Duncan, LG; Johnston, RS	How does phonological awareness relate to nonword reading skill amongst poor readers?	READING AND WRITING	This study examined phonological awareness at the level of phonemes and rhyme and related this to nonword naming ability. Poor readers were compared with 11 year old chronological-age controls and 8 year old reading-age controls. The poor reader group was impaired for chronological age in all tasks, and impaired for reading age at nonword naming and phoneme deletion. The poor readers' rhyming skills, however, were commensurate with reading age. Individual variation was observed together with exceptions to the group findings; most poor readers performed within the range of the reading-age controls on the phonological tasks and in nonword naming. Dissociations in phonological skills were evident, including indications that intact awareness of rhyme may not be a prerequisite for the development of phoneme awareness. Furthermore, phoneme awareness correlated significantly with poor readers' word and nonword reading ability, whereas rhyming skill did not. Therefore, phoneme awareness may be more important than rhyming skill in understanding reading disorders.
186	connectionism	2013	Perry, C; Ziegler, JC; Zorzi, M	A Computational and Empirical Investigation of Graphemes in Reading	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	It is often assumed that graphemes are a crucial level of orthographic representation above letters. Current connectionist models of reading, however, do not address how the mapping from letters to graphemes is learned. One major challenge for computational modeling is therefore developing a model that learns this mapping and can assign the graphemes to linguistically meaningful categories such as the onset, vowel, and coda of a syllable. Here, we present a model that learns to do this in English for strings of any letter length and any number of syllables. The model is evaluated on error rates and further validated on the results of a behavioral experiment designed to examine ambiguities in the processing of graphemes. The results show that the model (a) chooses graphemes from letter strings with a high level of accuracy, even when trained on only a small portion of the English lexicon; (b) chooses a similar set of graphemes as people do in situations where different graphemes can potentially be selected; (c) predicts orthographic effects on segmentation which are found in human data; and (d) can be readily integrated into a full-blown model of multi-syllabic reading aloud such as CDP++ (Perry, Ziegler, & Zorzi, 2010). Altogether, these results suggest that the model provides a plausible hypothesis for the kind of computations that underlie the use of graphemes in skilled reading.
187	connectionism	2009	Rescorla, M	Cognitive Maps and the Language of Thought	BRITISH JOURNAL FOR THE PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	Fodor advocates a view of cognitive processes as computations defined over the language of thought (or Mentalese). Even among those who endorse Mentalese, considerable controversy surrounds its representational format. What semantically relevant structure should scientific psychology attribute to Mentalese symbols? Researchers commonly emphasize logical structure, akin to that displayed by predicate calculus sentences. To counteract this tendency, I discuss computational models of navigation drawn from probabilistic robotics. These models involve computations defined over cognitive maps, which have geometric rather than logical structure. They thereby demonstrate the possibility of rational cognitive processes in an exclusively non-logical representational medium. Furthermore, they offer much promise for the empirical study of animal navigation.
188	connectionism	2008	Roy, A	Connectionism, Controllers, and a Brain Theory	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART A-SYSTEMS AND HUMANS	This paper proposes a new theory for the internal mechanisms of the brain. It postulates that there are controllers in the brain and that there are parts of the brain that control other parts. Thus, the theory refutes the connectionist theory that there are no separate controllers in the brain for higher level functions and that all control is "local and distributed" at the level of the cells. Connectionist algorithms themselves are used to prove this theory. Moreover, there is evidence in the neuroscience literature to support this theory. Thus, this paper proposes a control theoretic approach for understanding how the brain works and learns. That means that control theoretic principles should be applicable to developing systems similar to the brain.
189	connectionism	2008	Williams, JN; Kuribara, C	Comparing a nativist and emergentist approach to the initial stage of SLA: An investigation of Japanese scrambling	LINGUA	The aim of the present study was to evaluate how successfully the UG (nativist) and connectionist (emergentist) frameworks can account for early L2 development, focusing on the acquisition of Japanese word order by adult native English speakers. We conducted a laboratory-based language learning study in which participants were exposed to a semi-artificial language based on Japanese, and we measured incidental learning of scrambling (and head-direction). Although there was some evidence of learning a generalised notion of "free word order", there was no evidence for accessing the relevant UG parameterised properties. The lack of clustering effects expected as a result of acquiring scrambling led us to conclude that adult SLA is not guided by UG. On the other hand, a connectionist simple recurrent network that was trained and tested on the same structures provided a close approximation to the participants' data, suggesting that they had acquired a good sense of the statistical structure of the input. Nevertheless, we argue that such a model cannot provide a complete account of learning the word order phenomena that we investigated without being supplemented by symbolic rule-learning mechanisms. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
190	connectionism	2003	Carruthers, P	On Fodor's problem	MIND & LANGUAGE	This paper sketches a solution to a problem which has been emphasized by Fodor. This is the problem of how to explain distinctively-human flexible cognition in modular terms. There are three aspects to the proposed account. First, it is suggested that natural language sentences might serve to integrate the outputs of a number of conceptual modules. Second, a creative sentence-generator, or supposer, is postulated. And third, it is argued that a set of principles of inference to the best explanation call be constructed from already-extant aspects of linguistic testimony and discourse interpretation. Most importantly, it is suggested that the resulting architecture should be implementable in ways that are computationally tractable.
191	connectionism	2003	Gregg, KR	The state of emergentism in second language acquisition	SECOND LANGUAGE RESEARCH	'Emergentism' is the name that has recently been given to a general approach to cognition that stresses the interaction between organism and environment and that denies the existence of pre-determined, domain-specific faculties or capacities. Emergentism thus offers itself as an alternative to modular,'special nativist' theories of the mind, such as theories of Universal Grammar (UG). In language acquisition, emergentists claim that simple learning mechanisms, of the kind attested elsewhere in cognition, are sufficient to bring about the emergence of complex language representations. In this article, I consider, and reject, several a priori arguments often raised against 'special nativism'. I then look at some of the arguments and evidence for an emergentist account of second language acquisition (SLA), and show that emergentists have so far failed to take into account, let alone defeat, standard Poverty of the Stimulus arguments for,special nativism', and have equally failed to show how language competence could 'emerge'.
192	connectionism	1998	Wells, AJ	Turing's analysis of computation and theories of cognitive architecture	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Turing's analysis of computation is a fundamental part of the background of cognitive science. In this paper if is argued that a re-interpretation of Turing's work is required to underpin theorizing about cognitive architecture. It is claimed that the symbol systems view of the mind, which is the conventional way of understanding how Turing's work impacts on cognitive science, is deeply flawed. There is an alternative interpretation that is more faithful to Turing's original insights, avoids the criticisms mode of the symbol systems approach and is compatible with the growing interest in agent-environment interaction. it is argued that this interpretation should form the basis for theories of cognitive architecture.
193	connectionism	1998	Sougne, J	Connectionism and the problem of multiple instantiation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Multiple instantiation is the ability to handle different instances of the same concept simultaneously. For example, from the following two facts: 'Pepin the Short was the son of Charles Martel' and 'Charlemagne was the son of Pepin the Short', one can infer that Charles Martel was the grandfather of Charlemagne. This inference requires two instantiations of 'Pepin the Short', the first in the role of the son, the second in the role of the father. For a connectionist model that does not use a working area receiving copies of items from a long-term knowledge base, the problem of multiple instantiation is a particularly thorny one. People are able to deal with multiple instances, unlike most connectionist models, but nonetheless their performance than doing so is reduced. On the other hand, there is no decrease in performance for symbolic models doing multiple instantiation. A good cognitive model should reflect both human competence and human limitations. This review proposes several connectionist solutions to the problem of multiple instantiation and examines their merits.
194	connectionism	1995	GU, Z; ZHANG, YF; NEE, AYC	GENERIC FORM FEATURE RECOGNITION AND OPERATION SELECTION USING CONNECTIONIST MODELING	JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT MANUFACTURING	For the purpose of enhancing the adaptability of computer-aided process planning systems, two connectionist modelling methods, namely neocognitron (i.e. neural network modelling for pattern recognition) and fuzzy associative memories (FAM), are applied to the phases of feature recognition and operation selection respectively in order to provide the system with the ability of self-learning and the ability to integrate traditional expert planning systems with connectionism-based models. In this paper, the attributed adjacency graph (AAG) extracted from a (B-Rep) solid model is converted to attributed adjacency matrices (AAM) that can be used as input data for the neocognitron to train and recognize feature patterns. With this technique, the system can not only self-reconstruct its recognition abilities for new features by learning without a priori knowledge but can also recognize and decompose intersection features. A fuzzy connectionist model, which is created using the Hebbian fuzzy learning algorithm, is employed subsequently to map the features to the appropriate operations. As the algorithm is capable of learning from rules, it is much easier to integrate the proposed model with conventional expert CAPP systems so that they become more generic in dealing with uncertain information processing and perform knowledge updating.
195	connectionism	1994	FIESLER, E	NEURAL-NETWORK CLASSIFICATION AND FORMALIZATION	COMPUTER STANDARDS & INTERFACES	In order to assist the field of neural networks in maturing, a formalization and a solid foundation are essential. Additionally, to permit the introduction of formal proofs, it is essential to have an all-encompassing formal mathematical definition of a neural network. This publication offers a neural network formalization consisting of a topological taxonomy, a uniform nomenclature, and an accompanying consistent mnemonic notation. Supported by this formalization, both a flexible hierarchical and a universal mathematical definition are presented.
196	connectionism	2016	Dalege, J; Borsboom, D; van Harreveld, F; van den Berg, H; Conner, M; van der Maas, HLJ	Toward a Formalized Account of Attitudes: The Causal Attitude Network (CAN) Model	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	This article introduces the Causal Attitude Network (CAN) model, which conceptualizes attitudes as networks consisting of evaluative reactions and interactions between these reactions. Relevant evaluative reactions include beliefs, feelings, and behaviors toward the attitude object. Interactions between these reactions arise through direct causal influences (e.g., the belief that snakes are dangerous causes fear of snakes) and mechanisms that support evaluative consistency between related contents of evaluative reactions (e.g., people tend to align their belief that snakes are useful with their belief that snakes help maintain ecological balance). In the CAN model, the structure of attitude networks conforms to a small-world structure: evaluative reactions that are similar to each other form tight clusters, which are connected by a sparser set of "shortcuts" between them. We argue that the CAN model provides a realistic formalized measurement model of attitudes and therefore fills a crucial gap in the attitude literature. Furthermore, the CAN model provides testable predictions for the structure of attitudes and how they develop, remain stable, and change over time. Attitude strength is conceptualized in terms of the connectivity of attitude networks and we show that this provides a parsimonious account of the differences between strong and weak attitudes. We discuss the CAN model in relation to possible extensions, implication for the assessment of attitudes, and possibilities for further study.
197	connectionism	2007	McCauley, RN	REDUCTION: MODELS OF CROSS-SCIENTIFIC RELATIONS AND THEIR IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PSYCHOLOGY-NEUROSCIENCE INTERFACE	PHILOSOPHY OF PSYCHOLOGY AND COGNITIVE SCIENCE	0
198	connectionism	2006	Mellow, JD	The emergence of second language syntax: A case study of the acquisition of relative clauses	APPLIED LINGUISTICS	One of the great puzzles of language acquisition has been described as poverty of the stimulus: how are complex aspects of language acquired when they appear to be rare or even non-occurring in the input that a learner receives and comprehends? This article presents an emergentist solution to one aspect of this puzzle (involving relative clauses) by examining the longitudinal development of meaningful discourse produced by Ana, a 12-year-old Spanish learner of English. Relative clause constructions are considered in terms of learnable, non-abstract linguistic analyses (lexicalist signs and constructions; dependencies), informed by emergentist syntax (O'Grady 2005), analyses within Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar (Sag 1997), and a comprehensive corpus grammar (Biber et al. 1999). The data show that complex aspects of language gradually emerged from item-based and compositional learning processes that interacted with the learner's environment, including input frequency and the functional purposes for which language is used. Item-based, sign-based, and compositional analyses of constructions are valuable for syllabus design (for synthetic syllabi) and for the evaluation of language proficiency (i.e. testing and measurement).
199	connectionism	2000	Buckingham, D; Shultz, TR	The Developmental Course of Distance, Time, and Velocity Concepts: A Generative Connectionist Model	JOURNAL OF COGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT	Connectionist simulations of children's acquisition of distance (d), time (t), and velocity (v) concepts using a generative algorithm-cascade-correlation-are reported. Rules that correlated most highly with network responses during training were consistent with the developmental course of children's concepts. Networks integrated the defining dimensions of the concepts first by identity rules (e. g., v = d), then additive rules (e. g., v = d-t), and finally multiplicative rules (e. g., v = d divided by t). The results are discussed in terms of similarity to children's development, the contribution of connectionism to the study of cognitive development, contrasts with alternative models, and directions for future research.
200	connectionism	1999	Alegre, M; Gordon, P	Rule-based versus associative processes in derivational morphology	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The present article examines whether derivational morphology shows evidence of an associative memory structure. A distributional analysis of stems of attested derivational farms revealed evidence of clustering around phonological properties (gangs) for all nonneutral affixes but only a few neutral affixes. Subjects' acceptability ratings for novel complex words revealed sensitivity to the gang structure associated with the relevant derivational affixes. Results suggest that, like inflectional morphology, derivational morphology shows dissociations between rule-based and associative generalization mechanisms, (C) 1999 Academic Press.
201	connectionism	2010	Bowers, JS	More on Grandmother Cells and the Biological Implausibility of PDP Models of Cognition: A Reply to Plaut and McClelland (2010) and Quian Quiroga and Kreiman (2010)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Plaut and McClelland (2010) and Quian Quiroga and Kreiman (2010) both challenged my characterization of localist and distributed representations. They also challenged the biological plausibility of grandmother cells on conceptual and empirical grounds. This reply addresses these issues in turn. The premise of my argument is that grandmother cells in neuroscience are the equivalent of localist representations in psychology. When defined in this way, grandmother cells are biologically plausible, given the neuroscience to date. By contrast, the neurophysiology is shown to be inconsistent with the distributed representations often learned in existing parallel distributed processing (PDP) models, and it poses a challenge to PDP theories more generally.
202	connectionism	2002	Tesser, A	Constructing a Niche for the Self: A Bio-Social, PDP Approach to Understanding Lives	SELF AND IDENTITY	Viewing selves as negotiating idiosyncratic life niches may be useful in understanding life change. When less resistant self attributes and environmental presses conflict, the self tends to reflect the environment; when more resistant self attributes (e.g., those high in heritability) and environmental presses conflict, the individual will tend to change his or her personal environment in ways that better afford the expression of those self-attributes. Life niches result from attempts to satisfy simultaneous constraints from self-aspects such as abilities, desires, and temperament, and situational presses and affordances. Parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks appear to be a promising way to represent niche construction.
203	connectionism	2015	Caruana, N; Brock, J; Woolgar, A	A frontotemporoparietal network common to initiating and responding to joint attention bids	NEUROIMAGE	Joint attention is a fundamental cognitive ability that supports daily interpersonal relationships and communication. The Parallel Distributed Processing model (PDPM) postulates that responding to (RJA) and initiating (IJA) joint attention are predominantly supported by posterior-parietal and frontal regions respectively. It also argues that these neural networks integrate during development, supporting the parallel processes of self-and other-attention representation during interactions. However, direct evidence for the PDPM is limited due to a lack of ecologically valid experimental paradigms that can capture both RJA and IJA. Building on existing interactive approaches, we developed a virtual reality paradigm where participants engaged in an online interaction to complete a cooperative task. By including tightly controlled baseline conditions to remove activity associated with non-social task demands, we were able to directly contrast the neural correlates of RJA and IJA to determine whether these processes are supported by common brain regions. Both RJA and IJA activated broad frontotemporoparietal networks. Critically, a conjunction analysis identified that a subset of these regions were common to both RJA and IJA. This right-lateralised network included the dorsal portion of the middle frontal gyrus (MFG), inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), middle temporal gyrus (MTG), precentral gyrus, posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), temporoparietal junction (TPJ) and precuneus. Additional activation was observed in this network for IJA relative to RJA at MFG, IFG, TPJ and precuneus. This is the first imaging study to directly investigate the neural correlates common to RJA and IJA engagement, and thus support the assumption that a broad integrated network underlies the parallel aspects of both initiating and responding to joint attention. Crown Copyright (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
204	connectionism	2014	Rogers, TT; McClelland, JL	Parallel Distributed Processing at 25: Further Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper introduces a special issue of Cognitive Science initiated on the 25th anniversary of the publication of Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP), a two-volume work that introduced the use of neural network models as vehicles for understanding cognition. The collection surveys the core commitments of the PDP framework, the key issues the framework has addressed, and the debates the framework has spawned, and presents viewpoints on the current status of these issues. The articles focus on both historical roots and contemporary developments in learning, optimality theory, perception, memory, language, conceptual knowledge, cognitive control, and consciousness. Here we consider the approach more generally, reviewing the original motivations, the resulting framework, and the central tenets of the underlying theory. We then evaluate the impact of PDP both on the field at large and within specific subdomains of cognitive science and consider the current role of PDP models within the broader landscape of contemporary theoretical frameworks in cognitive science. Looking to the future, we consider the implications for cognitive science of the recent success of machine learning systems called "deep networks"-systems that build on key ideas presented in the PDP volumes.
205	connectionism	1997	Topping, BHV; Khan, AI; Bahreininejad, A	Parallel training of neural networks for finite element mesh decomposition	COMPUTERS & STRUCTURES	This paper describes a parallel processing implementation for neural computing and its application to finite element mesh decomposition. The parallelized neural network software developed is based on the public domain NASA developed program NETS 2.01, which is based on the back propagation algorithm of Rumelhart et al. [Learning internal representation by error propagation. In Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition (Edited by D. E. Rummelhart and J. L. McClelland), Vol. 1: Foundations. MIT Press, MA (1986)]. The principal focus of this research concerns the parallel implementation. Comparisons between sequential and parallel versions are given. Finally a structural design problem concerned with finite element mesh generation is solved using the parallel neural network software. (C) 1997 Civil-Comp Ltd and Elsevier Science Ltd.
206	connectionism	2011	Jefferies, E; Rogers, TT; Ralph, MAL	Premorbid expertise produces category-specific impairment in a domain-general semantic disorder	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	For decades, category-specific semantic impairment - i.e., better comprehension of items from one semantic category than another - has been the driving force behind many claims about the organisation of conceptual knowledge in the brain. Double dissociations between patients with category-specific disorders are widely interpreted as showing that different conceptual domains are necessarily supported by functionally independent systems. We show that, to the contrary, even strong or classical dissociations can also arise from individual differences in premorbid expertise. We examined two patients with global and progressive semantic degradation who, unusually, had known areas of premorbid expertise. Patient 1, a former automotive worker, showed selective preservation of car knowledge, whereas Patient 2, a former botanist, showed selective preservation of information about plants. In non-expert domains, these patients showed the typical pattern: i.e., an inability to differentiate between highly similar concepts (e.g., rose and daisy), but retention of broader distinctions (e.g., between rose and cat). Parallel distributed processing (PDP) models of semantic cognition show that expertise in a particular domain increases the differentiation of specific-level concepts, such that the semantic distance between these items resembles non-expert basic-level distinctions. We propose that these structural changes interact with global semantic degradation, particularly when expert knowledge is acquired early and when exposure to expert concepts continues during disease progression. Therefore, category-specific semantic impairment can arise from at least two distinct mechanisms: damage to representations that are critical for a particular category (e.g., knowledge of hand shape and action for the category 'tools') and differences in premorbid experience. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
207	connectionism	2011	Welbourne, SR; Woollams, AM; Crisp, J; Ralph, MAL	The role of plasticity-related functional reorganization in the explanation of central dyslexias	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	This investigation explored the hypothesis that patterns of acquired dyslexia may reflect, in part, plasticity-driven relearning that dynamically alters the division of labour (DOL) between the direct, orthography -> phonology (O -> P) pathway and the semantically mediated, orthography -> semantics -> phonology (O -> S -> P) pathway. Three simulations were conducted using a variant of the triangle model of reading. The model demonstrated core characteristics of normal reading behaviour in its undamaged state. When damage was followed by reoptimization (mimicking spontaneous recovery), the model reproduced the deficits observed in the central dyslexias-acute phonological damage combined with recovery matched data taken from a series of 12 phonological dyslexic patients-whilst progressive semantic damage interspersed with recovery reproduced data taken from 100 observations of semantic dementia patients. The severely phonologically damaged model also produced symptoms of deep dyslexia (imageability effects, production of semantic and mixed semantic/visual errors). In all cases, the DOL changed significantly in the recovery period, suggesting that postmorbid functional reorganization is important in understanding behaviour in chronic-stage patients.
208	connectionism	2007	Siakaluk, PD; Pexman, PM; Sears, CR; Owen, WJ	Multiple meanings are not necessarily a disadvantage in semantic processing: Evidence from homophone effects in semantic categorisation	LANGUAGE AND COGNITIVE PROCESSES	The ambiguity disadvantage (slower processing of ambiguous words relative to unambiguous words) has been taken as evidence for a distributed semantic representational system like that embodied in parallel distributed processing (PDP) models. In the present study, we investigated whether semantic ambiguity slows meaning activation, as PDP models would predict, by examining homophone effects in semantic categorisation tasks. We observed a homophone effect in a go/no-go semantic categorisation task, but not In a yes/no semantic categorisation task. Our results suggest that previously reported ambiguity effects may have been due to the decision phase of the semantic categorisation task and not to the semantic processing phase, in which case the interpretation of the ambiguity disadvantage will need to be reconsidered.
209	connectionism	2006	Ishizuka, K; Nakatani, T	A feature extraction method using subband based periodicity and aperiodicity decomposition with noise robust frontend processing for automatic speech recognition	SPEECH COMMUNICATION	This paper proposes a frontend processing technique that employs a speech feature extraction method called Subband based Periodicity and Aperiodicity DEcomposition (SPADE), and examines its validity for automatic speech recognition in noisy environments. SPADE divides speech signals into subband signals, which are then decomposed into their periodic and aperiodic features, and uses both features as speech feature parameters. SPADE employs independent periodicity estimation within each subband and periodicity-aperiodicity decomposition design based on a parallel distributed processing technique motivated by the human speech perception process. Unlike other speech features, this decomposition of speech into two characteristics provides information about periodicities and aperiodicities, and thus allows the utilization of the robustness exhibited by periodic features without losing certain essential information included in aperiodic features. This paper first introduces an implementation of SPADE that operates in the frequency domain, and then examines the validity of combining SPADE with speech enhancement methods. For this examination, we combine SPADE with noise compensation methods that operate in the frequency domain and cepstral normalization methods. In addition, we employ an energy parameter calculation method based on the SPADE framework. An evaluation with the AURORA-2J noisy continuous digit speech recognition database (Japanese AURORA-2) shows that SPADE combined with adaptive Wiener filtering, cepstral normalization, and the energy parameter achieves average word accuracy rates of 82.58% with clean training and 92.55% with multicondition training. These rates are higher than those achieved with ETSI W1008 advanced DSR frontend processing (77.98% and 91.01%, respectively) whose speech feature parameter is based on conventional Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients. By comparison with ETSI W1008 advanced DSR frontend, the proposed method reduces word error rates by 20.9% with clean training and 17.2% with multicondition training. These results confirmed that SPADE combined with noise reduction methods can increase robustness in the presence of noise. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
210	connectionism	2006	Smolensky, P	Harmony in linguistic cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In this article, I survey the integrated connectionist/symbolic (ICS) cognitive architecture in which higher cognition must be formally characterized on two levels of description. At the microlevel, parallel distributed processing (PDP) characterizes mental processing; this PDP system has special organization in virtue of which it can be characterized at the macrolevel as a kind of symbolic computational system. The symbolic system inherits certain properties from its PDP substrate; the symbolic functions computed constitute optimization of a well-formedness measure called Harmony. The most important outgrowth of the ICS research program is optimality theory (Prince & Smolensky, 1993/2004), an optimization-based grammatical theory that provides a formal theory of cross-linguistic typology. Linguistically, Harmony maximization corresponds to minimization of markedness or structural ill-formedness. Cognitive explanation in ICS requires the collaboration of symbolic and connectionist principles. ICS is developed in detail in Smolensky and Legendre (2006a); this article is a precis of and guide to those volumes.
211	connectionism	1994	Foorman, BR	The Relevance of a Connectionist Model of Reading for "The Great Debate"	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Connectionist models of reading, in particular Seidenberg and McClelland's (1989) parallel distributed processing model of word recognition, are described and contrasted with the top-down, bottom-up, and interactive models of reading from the traditional, symbol-manipulation paradigm of information processing. Connectionism emphasizes: (1) a single, rather than dual, mechanism for processing words, and (2) distributed representations and weighted connections between units rather than symbolic rules for mapping letters and sounds. Implications for the teaching of reading are discussed.
212	connectionism	1997	Hoffman, RE	Neural network simulations, cortical connectivity, and schizophrenic psychosis	M D COMPUTING	Recent studies have suggested that reduced corticocortical connectivity is associated with schizophrenia. My colleagues and I have used neural network simulations to explore parallel, distributed processing systems with reduced connectivity. These systems often behaved in a ''schizophrenic-like'' manner. Excessively pruned attractor networks became functionally fragmented, suggesting ''loose associations,'' and produced recurrent, intrusive representations suggestive of delusions. Pruning backpropagation simulations of speech perception networks produced spontaneous output, which provided a model of auditory hallucination or ''voices.'' This model also suggested how dopamine-blocking drugs may reduce positive symptoms, and why negative symptoms arise in the wake of positive symptoms.
213	connectionism	2010	Halasz, P	THE CONCEPT OF EPILEPTIC NETWORKS. PART 1	IDEGGYOGYASZATI SZEMLE-CLINICAL NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper we investigate evidences supporting the net work concept of epilepsies from different approaches Firstly the functions of cortical networks in which most of the epileptic networks are embedded, are treated Then the tentative characteristics of an epileptic network are enumerated and the conversion mechanisms from physiological to epileptic networks are analyzed Later the role of neuronal oscillations in epileptic networks and aspects of epilepsies provoked by sensory and cognitive tasks is studied Lastly new fMRI data in mapping BOLD networks underlying spike and seizure discharges are used as arguments in favour of the epileptic network hypothesis In a second part the well known epilepsies related, or probably related to physiological networks are shown Finally consequences of the network approach for creating a new unified epilepsy classification are discussed
214	connectionism	2009	Schapiro, AC; McClelland, JL	A connectionist model of a continuous developmental transition in the balance scale task	COGNITION	A connectionist model of the balance scale task is presented which exhibits developmental transitions between 'Rule I' and 'Rule II' behavior [Siegler, R. S. (1976). Three aspects of cognitive development. Cognitive Psychology, 8, 481-520.] as well as the 'catastrophe flags' seen in data from Jansen and van tier Maas [Jansen, B. R. J., & van tier Maas, H. L. J. (2001). Evidence for the phase transition from Rule I to Rule II on the balance scale task. Developmental Review, 21, 450-494]. The model extends a connectionist model of this task [McClelland, J. L. (1989). Parallel distributed processing: Implications for cognition and development. In R. G. M. Morris (Ed.), Parallel distributed processing: Implications for psychology and neurobiology (pp. 8-45). Oxford: Clarendon Press] by introducing intrinsic variability into processing and by allowing the network to adapt during testing in response to its own outputs. The simulations direct attention to several aspects of the experimental data indicating that children generally show gradual change in sensitivity to the distance dimension on the balance scale. While a few children show larger changes than are characteristic of the model, its ability to account for nearly all of the data using continuous processes is consistent with the view that the transition from Rule I to Rule II behavior is typically continuous rather than discrete in nature. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
215	connectionism	2006	de Zubicaray, G; McMahon, K; Eastburn, M; Pringle, A; Lorenz, L	Classic identity negative priming involves accessing semantic representations in the left anterior temporal cortex	NEUROIMAGE	Classic identity negative priming (NP) refers to the finding that when an object is ignored, subsequent naming responses to it are slower than when it has not been previously ignored (Tipper, S.P., 1985. The negative priming effect: inhibitory priming by ignored objects. Q. J. Exp. Psychol. 37A, 571-590). It is unclear whether this phenomenon arises due to the involvement of abstract semantic representations that the ignored object accesses automatically. Contemporary connectionist models propose a key role for the anterior temporal cortex in the representation of abstract semantic knowledge (e.g., McClelland, J.L., Rogers, T.T., 2003. The parallel distributed processing approach to semantic cognition. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 4, 310-322), suggesting that this region should be involved during performance of the classic identity NP task if it involves semantic access. Using high-field (4 T) event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we observed increased BOLD responses in the left anterolateral temporal cortex including the temporal pole that was directly related to the magnitude of each individual's NP effect, supporting a semantic locus. Additional signal increases were observed in the supplementary eye fields (SEF) and left inferior parietal lobule (IPL). (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
216	connectionism	2001	Raffone, A; Van Leeuwen, C	Activation and coherence in memory processes: Revisiting the Parallel Distributed Processing approach to retrieval	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Connectionist models based on activation spreading and attractor dynamics are functionally limited by representational and processing flexibility constraints, the 'feature binding problem' and the need to balance accurately activation and inhibition. We suggest an alternative approach, in which network units are characterized by two variables: activation and phase. Whereas activation evolves according to a 'classical' connectionist rule, the phase variable is characterized by a chaotic evolution. We present a model of memory retrieval with reference to the paradigmatic McClelland's 1981 'Jets and Sharks' model. The model solves the 'multiple reinstantiation problem', i.e. the problem of retrieval of multiple items with overlapping features, implied by its classical predecessor. In our network, multiple pattern reinstantiation in terms of activation spreading is disambiguate through selective and differential coherence patterns. The system flexibly represents pattern similarity and feature relationships by means of graded and intermittent synchrony. The domain-general implications of this approach for connectionist 'interactive activation models' and its neurophysiological plausibility are discussed.
217	connectionism	1992	PARKS, RW; LEVINE, DS; LONG, DL; CROCKETT, DJ; DALTON, IE; WEINGARTNER, H; FEDIO, P; COBURN, KL; SILER, G; MATTHEWS, JR; BECKER, RE	PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING AND NEUROPSYCHOLOGY - A NEURAL NETWORK MODEL OF WISCONSIN CARD SORTING AND VERBAL FLUENCY	NEUROPSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Neural networks can be used as a tool in the explanation of neuropsychological data. Using the Hebbian Learning Rule and other such principles as competition and modifiable interlevel feedback, researchers have successfully modeled a widely used neuropsychological test, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. One of these models is reviewed here and extended to a qualitative analysis of how verbal fluency might be modeled, which demonstrates the importance of accounting for the attentional components of both tests. Difficulties remain in programming sequential cognitive processes within a parallel distributed processing (PDP) framework and integrating exceedingly complex neuropsychological tests such as Proverbs. PDP neural network methodology offers neuropsychologists co-validation procedures within narrowly defined areas of reliability and validity.
218	connectionism	1991	KOLEN, JF; GOEL, AK	LEARNING IN PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING NETWORKS - COMPUTATIONAL-COMPLEXITY AND INFORMATION-CONTENT	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS	Neural networks offer an intriguing set of techniques for learning based on the adjustment of weights of connections between processing units.  However, the power and limitations of connectionist methods for learning, such as the method of back propagation in parallel distributed processing networks, are not yet entirely clear.  A set of experiments that more precisely identify the power and limitations of the method of back propagation is reported on.  The experiment on learning to compute the exclusive-or function suggests that the computational efficiency of learning by the method of back propagation depends on the initial weights in the network.  The experiment on learning to play tic-tac-toe suggests that the information content of what is learned by the back propagation method is dependent on the initial abstractions in the network.  It also suggests that these abstractions are a major source of power for learning in parallel distributed processing networks.  In addition, it is shown that the learning task addressed by connectionist methods, including the back propagation method, is computationally intractable.  These experimental and theoretical results strongly indicate that current connectionist methods may be too limited for the complex task of learning they seek to solve.  It is proposed that the power of neural networks may be enhanced by developing task-specific connectionist methods.
219	connectionism	2015	Kuhl, J; Quirin, M; Koole, SL	Being Someone: The Integrated Self as a Neuropsychological System	SOCIAL AND PERSONALITY PSYCHOLOGY COMPASS	Fully functioning persons are characterized by a unity in thought, emotion, and action that amounts to "being someone" or having "an integrated self." Psychologists have typically treated the integrated self as merely a descriptive term that summarizes significant behavioral achievements. In the present article, the authors seek to place the integrated self on firmer theoretical grounds by relating the integrated self to a neurobiological system with distinct processing characteristics. Building on personality systems interactions theory (Kuhl, 2000b), the authors suggest that the integrated self is supported by parallel distributed processing in the right anterior cortex and can be distinguished from simpler self-related states of mind. From this neuropsychological model, the authors derive seven functions of the integrated self: emotional connectedness, broad vigilance, utilization of felt feedback, unconscious processing, integration of negative experiences, extended resilience, and extended trust. The authors discuss the seven functions and their mutual relations along with relevant behavioral and neurobiological evidence. Finally, the authors highlight the importance of positive relationships for optimal development of the integrated self and discuss how the integrated self might be further cultivated to improve self-regulation and health.
220	connectionism	2015	Eddington, CM; Tokowicz, N	How meaning similarity influences ambiguous word processing: the current state of the literature	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	The majority of words in the English language do not correspond to a single meaning, but rather correspond to two or more unrelated meanings (i.e., are homonyms) or multiple related senses (i.e., are polysemes). It has been proposed that the different types of "semantically-ambiguous words" (i.e., words with more than one meaning) are processed and represented differently in the human mind. Several review papers and books have been written on the subject of semantic ambiguity (e.g., Adriaens, Small, Cottrell, & Tanenhaus, 1988; Burgess & Simpson, 1988; Degani & Tokowicz, 2010; Gorfein, 1989, 2001; Simpson, 1984). However, several more recent studies (e.g., Klein & Murphy, 2001; Klepousniotou, 2002; Klepousniotou & Baum, 2007; Rodd, Gaskell, & Marslen-Wilson, 2002) have investigated the role of the semantic similarity between the multiple meanings of ambiguous words on processing and representation, whereas this was not the emphasis of previous reviews of the literature. In this review, we focus on the current state of the semantic ambiguity literature that examines how different types of ambiguous words influence processing and representation. We analyze the consistent and inconsistent findings reported in the literature and how factors such as semantic similarity, meaning/sense frequency, task, timing, and modality affect ambiguous word processing. We discuss the findings with respect to recent parallel distributed processing (PDP) models of ambiguity processing (Armstrong & Plaut, 2008, 2011; Rodd, Gaskell, & Marslen-Wilson, 2004). Finally, we discuss how experience/instance-based models (e.g., Hintzman, 1986; Reichle & Perfetti, 2003) can inform a comprehensive understanding of semantic ambiguity resolution.
221	connectionism	2014	Jin, L; Zhang, YN	Discrete-time Zhang neural network of O(tau(3)) pattern for time-varying matrix pseudoinversion with application to manipulator motion generation	NEUROCOMPUTING	In addition to the high-speed parallel-distributed processing property, neural networks can be readily implemented by hardware and thus have been applied widely in various fields. In this paper, via a new numerical-differentiation formula, two Taylor-type discrete-time Zhang neural network (ZNN) models (termed T-ZNN-K and T-ZNN-U models) are first proposed, developed and investigated for online time-varying matrix pseudoinversion. For comparison as well as for illustration, Euler-type discrete-time ZNN models (termed E-ZNN-K and E-ZNN-U models) and Newton iteration are presented. In addition, according to the criterion of whether the time-derivative information of time-varying matrix is explicitly known or not, these discrete-time ZNN models are classified into two categories: (1) models with time-derivative information known (i.e., T-ZNN-K and E-ZNN-K models), and (2) models with time-derivative information unknown (i.e., T-ZNN-U and E-ZNN-U models). Moreover, theoretical analyses show that, the maximal steady-state residual errors (MSSREs) of T-ZNN-K and T-ZNN-U models have an O(tau(3)) pattern, the MSSREs of E-ZNN-K and E-ZNN-U models have an O(tau(2)) pattern, whereas the MSSRE of Newton iteration has an O(tau) pattern, with tau denoting the sampling gap. Finally, two illustrative numerical experiments and an application example to manipulator motion generation are provided and analyzed to substantiate the efficacy of the proposed Taylor-type discrete-time ZNN models for online time-varying matrix pseudoinversion. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
222	connectionism	2009	Bowers, JS; Damian, MF; Davis, CJ	A Fundamental Limitation of the Conjunctive Codes Learned in PDP Models of Cognition: Comment on Botvinick and Plaut (2006)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A central claim shared by most recent models of short-term memory (STM) is that item knowledge is coded independently from order in long-term memory (LTM; e.g., the letter A is coded by the same representational unit whether it occurs at the start or end of a sequence). Serial order is computed by dynamically binding these item codes to a separate representation of order. By contrast, Botvinick and Plaut (2006) developed a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model of STM that codes for item-order information conjunctively, such that the same letter in different positions is coded differently in LTM. Their model supports a wide range of memory phenomena, and critically, STM is better for lists that include high, as opposed to low, sequential dependencies (e.g., bigram effects). Models with context-independent item representations do not currently account for sequential effects. However, we show that their PDP model is too sensitive to these effects. A modified version of the model does better but still fails in important respects. The successes and failures can be attributed to a fundamental constraint associated with context-dependent representations. We question the viability of conjunctive coding schemes to support STM and take these findings as problematic for the PDP approach to cognition more generally.
223	connectionism	2006	Roth, HL; Nadeau, SE; Hollingsworth, AL; Cimino-Knight, AM; Heilman, KM	Naming concepts: Evidence of two routes	NEUROCASE	This study examines a parallel distributed processing (PDP) model (partly based on the Wernicke-Lichtheim information processing model) that posits two routes for naming concepts, whole word and phonological. To test the two naming route hypothesis of this model, we performed confrontation naming tests that were either uncued, semantically cued, or phonologically cued in a patient with naming impairment due to Brocas aphasia. In spoken language and in uncued naming to confrontation, word retrieval was severely impaired and marked by semantic but no phonemic paraphasic errors. With semantic cues, naming behavior was unchanged; however, with phonological cues, naming success was enhanced but frequent phonemic paraphasias were produced. These results suggest that the patient spontaneously engaged the whole word naming route, but when given phonological cues, he engaged an alternative phonological naming route that incorporated phonological sequence knowledge.
224	connectionism	1999	Schlagel, RH	Why not artificial consciousness or thought?	MINDS AND MACHINES	The purpose of this article is to show why consciousness and thought are not manifested in digital computers. Analyzing the rationale for claiming that the formal manipulation of physical symbols in Turing machines would emulate human thought, the article attempts to show why this proved false. This is because the reinterpretation of 'designation' and 'meaning' to accommodate physical symbol manipulation eliminated their crucial functions in human discourse. Words have denotations and intensional meanings because the brain transforms the physical stimuli received from the microworld into a qualitative, macroscopic representation for consciousness. Lacking this capacity as programmed machines, computers have no representations for their symbols to designate and mean. Unlike human beings in which consciousness and thought, with their inherent content, have emerged because of their organic natures, serial processing computers or parallel distributed processing systems, as programmed electrical machines, lack these causal capacities.
225	connectionism	1995	PEEREMAN, R	NAMING REGULAR AND EXCEPTION WORDS - FURTHER EXAMINATION OF THE EFFECT OF PHONOLOGICAL DISSENSION AMONG LEXICAL NEIGHBORS	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	It is generally assumed that visual word recognition is accompanied by the activation of lexical representations corresponding to words orthographically similar to the target (neighbours). With regard to the pronunciation of their constituent units, these words can either converge with or diverge from the target pronunciation. The role of the frequency of the divergent pronunciations in print-to-sound conversion was examined in a naming experiment in which subjects pronounced regular and exception words. The results showed that naming latencies for exception words were affected by the orthographic similarity of the target with frequent phonologically divergent words (enemies). In a similar vein, regular words which include the letters G or C (whose pronunciations are contextually determined) and which are orthographically similar to words favouring an incorrect pronunciation of the letter took longer to pronounce than regular controls. A delayed naming experiment indicated that these differences were not attributable to the articulatory characteristics of the items. Finally, it also appeared that enemy frequency influenced naming latencies but not regularisation rates and regularisation latencies. The results are discussed within the framework of current dual-route and parallel distributed processing models of reading.
226	connectionism	1995	GOLDEN, RM	MAKING CORRECT STATISTICAL INFERENCES USING A WRONG PROBABILITY MODEL	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Large sample methods for estimating the variance of parameter estimates for hypothesis-testing purposes and statistical test for model selection when the statistical model is wrong (i.e., misspecified) are reviewed. A parallel distributed processing (PDP) statistical model for analyzing categorical time series data is then proposed, and a theorem establishing when the quasi-maximum likelihood estimates of the model are unique is stated and proved. Analysis of Golden et al.'s (1993, in the Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 487-491). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum) categorical time-series data with respect to the proposed PDP model showed that White's asymptotic statistical theory yielded results which were more consistent with boot-strap estimates than classical methods of statistical inference. (C) 1995 Academic Press, Inc.
227	connectionism	2014	Laszlo, S; Armstrong, BC	PSPs and ERPs: Applying the dynamics of post-synaptic potentials to individual units in simulation of temporally extended Event-Related Potential reading data	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	The Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) framework is built on neural-style computation, and is thus well-suited for simulating the neural implementation of cognition. However, relatively little cognitive modeling work has concerned neural measures, instead focusing on behavior. Here, we extend a PDP model of reading-related components in the Event-Related Potential (ERP) to simulation of the N400 repetition effect. We accomplish this by incorporating the dynamics of cortical post-synaptic potentials the source of the ERP signal into the model. Simulations demonstrate that application of these dynamics is critical for model elicitation of repetition effects in the time and frequency domains. We conclude that by advancing a neurocomputational understanding of repetition effects, we are able to posit an interpretation of their source that is both explicitly specified and mechanistically different from the well-accepted cognitive one. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
228	connectionism	1992	NEUMANN, EK; WHEELER, DA; BERNSTEIN, AS; BURNSIDE, JW; HALL, JC	ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK CLASSIFICATION OF DROSOPHILA COURTSHIP SONG MUTANTS	BIOLOGICAL CYBERNETICS	Courtship songs produced by Drosophila males - wild-type, plus the cacophony and dissonance behavioral mutants - were examined with the aid of newly developed strategies for adaptive acoustic analysis and classification. This system used several techniques involving artificial neural networks (a.k.a. parallel distributed processing), including learned vector quantization of signals and non-linear adaption (back-propagation) of data analysis. "Pulse" song from several individual wild-type and mutant males were first vector-quantized according to their frequency spectra. The accumulated quantized data of this kind, for a given song, were then used to "teach" or adapt a multiple-layered feedforward artificial neural network, which classified that song according to its original genotype. Results are presented on the performance of the final adapted system when faced with novel test data and on acoustic features the system decides upon for predicting the song-mutant genotype in question. The potential applications and extensions of this new system are discussed, including how it could be used to screen for courtship mutants, search novel behavior patterns or cause-and-effect relationships associated with reproduction, compress these kinds of data for digital storage, and analyze Drosophila behavior beyond the case of courtship song.
229	connectionism	1991	PARKS, RW; LONG, DL; LEVINE, DS; CROCKETT, DJ; MCGEER, EG; MCGEER, PL; DALTON, IE; ZEC, RF; BECKER, RE; COBURN, KL; SILER, G; NELSON, ME; BOWER, JM	PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING AND NEURAL NETWORKS - ORIGINS, METHODOLOGY AND COGNITIVE FUNCTIONS	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	0
230	connectionism	1988	MCCLELLAND, JL; RUMELHART, DE	A SIMULATION-BASED TUTORIAL SYSTEM FOR EXPLORING PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS INSTRUMENTS & COMPUTERS	0
231	connectionism	1985	BECHTEL, W	CONTEMPORARY CONNECTIONISM - ARE THE NEW PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING MODELS COGNITIVE OR ASSOCIATIONIST	BEHAVIORISM	0
232	connectionism	2014	Bowers, JS; Vankov, II; Damian, MF; Davis, CJ	Neural Networks Learn Highly Selective Representations in Order to Overcome the Superposition Catastrophe	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A key insight from 50 years of neurophysiology is that some neurons in cortex respond to information in a highly selective manner. Why is this? We argue that selective representations support the coactivation of multiple "things" (e.g., words, objects, faces) in short-term memory, whereas nonselective codes are often unsuitable for this purpose. That is, the coactivation of nonselective codes often results in a blend pattern that is ambiguous; the so-called superposition catastrophe. We show that a recurrent parallel distributed processing network trained to code for multiple words at the same time over the same set of units learns localist letter and word codes, and the number of localist codes scales with the level of the superposition. Given that many cortical systems are required to coactivate multiple things in short-term memory, we suggest that the superposition constraint plays a role in explaining the existence of selective codes in cortex.
233	connectionism	2014	Ueno, T; Saito, S; Saito, A; Tanida, Y; Patterson, K; Ralph, MAL	Not Lost in Translation: Generalization of the Primary Systems Hypothesis to Japanese-specific Language Processes	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The emergentist-connectionist approach assumes that language processing reflects interaction between primary neural systems (Primary Systems Hypothesis). This idea offers an overarching framework that generalizes to various kinds of (English) language and nonverbal cognitive activities. The current study advances this approach with respect to language in two new and important ways. The first is the provision of a neuroanatomically constrained implementation of the theory. The second is a test of its ability to generalize to a language other than English (in this case Japanese) and, in particular, to a feature of that language (pitch accent) for which there is no English equivalent. A corpus analysis revealed the presence and distribution of typical and atypical accent forms in Japanese vocabulary, forming a quasiregular domain. Consequently, according to the Primary Systems Hypothesis, there should be a greater semantic impact on the processing of words with an atypical pitch accent. In turn, when word meaning is intrinsically less rich (e.g., abstract words), speakers should be prone to regularization errors of pitch accent. We explored these semantic-phonological interactions, first, in a neuroanatomically constrained, parallel-distributed processing model of spoken language processing. This model captured the accent typicality effect observed in nonword repetition in Japanese adults and children and exhibited the predicted semantic impact on repetition of words with atypical accent patterns. Second, also as predicted, in word repetition and immediate serial recall of spoken words, human participants exhibited reduced pitch-accent accuracy and/or slower RT for low imageability words with atypical accent patterns, and they generated accent errors reflecting the more typical accent patterns found in Japanese.
234	connectionism	2013	Li, P; Zhao, XW	Self-organizing map models of language acquisition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Connectionist models have had a profound impact on theories of language. While most early models were inspired by the classic parallel distributed processing architecture, recent models of language have explored various other types of models, including self-organizing models for language acquisition. In this paper, we aim at providing a review of the latter type of models, and highlight a number of simulation experiments that we have conducted based on these models. We show that self-organizing connectionist models can provide significant insights into long-standing debates in both monolingual and bilingual language development. We suggest future directions in which these models can be extended, to better connect with behavioral and neural data, and to make clear predictions in testing relevant psycholinguistic theories.
235	connectionism	2010	Coltheart, M; Saunders, SJ; Tree, JJ	Computational modelling of the effects of semantic dementia on visual word recognition	COGNITIVE NEUROPSYCHOLOGY	Rogers, Lambon Ralph, Hodges, and Patterson (2004) studied two-alternative forced-choice visual lexical decision performance in patients with semantic dementia. With item pairs where the target word was more "typical" (i.e., higher in bigram and trigram frequency) than the foil (all foils were pseudohomophones), lexical decision performance was good and was unaffected by word frequency. With item pairs where the target word was less "typical" (i.e., lower in bigram and trigram frequency) than the foil, lexical decision performance was worse and was affected by word frequency, being particularly inaccurate when the word targets were low in frequency. We show (using as materials all the monosyllabic items used by Rogers and colleagues) that the same pattern of results occurs in the lexical decision performance of the DRC (dual-route cascaded) computational model of reading when the model is lesioned by probabilistic deletion of low-frequency words from its orthographic lexicon. We consider that the PDP (parallel distributed processing) computational model of reading used by Woollams, Plaut, Lambon Ralph, and Patterson (2007) to simulate reading in semantic dementia is not capable of simulating this lexical decision result. We take this, in conjunction with previous work on computational modelling of reading aloud in surface dyslexia, phonological dyslexia, and semantic dementia using the DRC and PDP reading models, to indicate that the DRC model does a better job than the PDP model in accounting for what is known about the various forms of acquired dyslexia.
236	connectionism	1992	MONTGOMERY, EB; CLARE, MH; SAHRMANN, S; BUCHHOLZ, SR; HIBBARD, LS; LANDAU, WM	NEURONAL MULTIPOTENTIALITY - EVIDENCE FOR NETWORK REPRESENTATION OF PHYSIOLOGICAL-FUNCTION	BRAIN RESEARCH	Extracellular action potentials of single neurons in motor cortex and rectified and integrated electromyographic activity (EMG) of gastrocnemius and anterior tibialis were recorded while a monkey performed isometric ankle plantar and dorsal flexion tasks.  This study determined the consistency of neuronal behaviors across different tasks.  Methods characterized neuronal behaviors by determining which behavioral event within a single task, such as the appearance of the 'go' signal, force onset, or agonist and antagonist EMG onset, was best related to changes in neuronal activity.  Another method compared the temporal profiles of discharge modulation across different tasks.  Of 220 neurons recorded, 44 were selected because they were consistently active in the tasks.  Of these, 37 were in the precentral cortex and the remaining seven were in the postcentral cortex.  Only 14 of the 33 in motor cortex were consistent in their behavioral correlations.  Several had multiple changes in activity within a single task that were related to different behavioral events.  Half were consistent for direction of force and a third were consistent for magnitude of force.  Furthermore, there was little consistency in the temporal profiles of discharge activity for all 44 neurons across tasks.  Similar modulations of discharge activity among neurons in one task were different in another task.  Such inconsistencies are evidence against the cardinal cell hypothesis of physiological representation.  We offer a new hypothesis analogous to connectionism in parallel distributed processing.
237	connectionism	2014	Leinenger, M	Phonological Coding During Reading	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	The exact role that phonological coding (the recoding of written, orthographic information into a sound based code) plays during silent reading has been extensively studied for more than a century. Despite the large body of research surrounding the topic, varying theories as to the time course and function of this recoding still exist. The present review synthesizes this body of research, addressing the topics of time course and function in tandem. The varying theories surrounding the function of phonological coding (e.g., that phonological codes aid lexical access, that phonological codes aid comprehension and bolster short-term memory, or that phonological codes are largely epiphenomenal in skilled readers) are first outlined, and the time courses that each maps onto (e.g., that phonological codes come online early [prelexical] or that phonological codes come online late [postlexical]) are discussed. Next the research relevant to each of these proposed functions is reviewed, discussing the varying methodologies that have been used to investigate phonological coding (e.g., response time methods, reading while eye-tracking or recording EEG and MEG, concurrent articulation) and highlighting the advantages and limitations of each with respect to the study of phonological coding. In response to the view that phonological coding is largely epiphenomenal in skilled readers, research on the use of phonological codes in prelingually, profoundly deaf readers is reviewed. Finally, implications for current models of word identification (activation-verification model, Van Orden, 1987; dual-route model, e.g., M. Coltheart, Rastle, Perry, Langdon, & Ziegler, 2001; parallel distributed processing model, Seidenberg & McClelland, 1989) are discussed.
238	connectionism	2005	Andrews, S; Woollams, A; Bond, R	Spelling-sound typicality only affects words with digraphs: Further qualifications to the generality of the regularity effect on word naming	JOURNAL OF MEMORY AND LANGUAGE	Two experiments investigated naming performance for items with and without digraphs. Both experiments compared performance for Regular Consistent, Regular Inconsistent and Exception words. Experiment I also compared nonwords with Non-Existent Bodies to those with existing Consistent and Inconsistent Bodies. Naming was slower for nonwords containing digraphs and for nonwords constructed from Non-Existent bodies. In both experiments, the naming latency data for words showed effects of spelling-sound typicality only for words with digraphs; the speed of naming words without digraphs was not affected by either regularity or consistency. The complete set of results could not be effectively simulated by either the Dual-Route Cascaded model or by Plant, McClelland, Seidenberg, and Patterson's (1996) Parallel Distributed Processing models. The absence of effects of spelling-sound typicality for words without digraphs qualifies a phenomenon that has been regarded as one of the central facts of visual word recognition and provides strong constraints on the future development of computational models of lexical retrieval. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
239	connectionism	2005	Rogers, TT; McClelland, JL	A parallel distributed processing approach to semantic cognition: Applications to conceptual development	BUILDING OBJECT CATEGORIES IN DEVELOPMENTAL TIME	0
240	connectionism	2004	ul Quraish, A; Yang, JL; Murakami, K; Oda, S; Takayanagi, M; Kimura, A; Kakuta, S; Kishi, K	Quantitative analysis of axon collaterals of single superficial pyramidal cells in layer IIb of the piriform cortex of the guinea pig	BRAIN RESEARCH	To understand the functional organization of the piriform cortex (PC), the axon collaterals of three pyramidal cells in layer IIb of the anterior PC and one pyramidal cell in layer IIb of the posterior PC were labeled and quantitatively analyzed by intracellular biocytin injection in the guinea pig. Single pyramidal cells in the anterior and posterior PCs have widely distributed axon collaterals, which exhibit little tendency for patchy concentrations inside as well as outside the PC. The total lengths of the axon collaterals of the three fully analyzed pyramidal cells ranged from 68 to 156 mm, more than 50% of which were distributed in the PC. The total number of boutons of the three cells ranged from 6000 to 14,000, 5000-7000 of which were distributed in the PC. It was estimated that individual pyramidal cells in layer IIb form synaptic contacts with 2200 to 3000 other pyramidal cells in the PC, indicating that single pyramidal cells in layer IIb receive input from a large number of other pyramidal cells. This high connectivity of the network of pyramidal cells in the PC can be regarded as the neural network operating parallel distributed processing, which may play an important role in experience-induced enhancement in odorant discrimination in the PC. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
241	connectionism	2001	Steinhart, E	Persons versus brains: Biological intelligence in human organisms	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	I go deep into the biology of the human organism to argue that the psychological features and functions of persons are realized by cellular and molecular parallel distributed processing networks dispersed throughout the whole body. Persons supervene on the computational processes of nervous, endocrine, immune, and genetic networks. Persons do not go with brains.
242	connectionism	1994	MASSONE, LLE	A NEURAL-NETWORK SYSTEM FOR CONTROL OF EYE-MOVEMENTS - BASIC MECHANISMS	BIOLOGICAL CYBERNETICS	This paper presents a neural-network-based system that can generate and control movements of the eyes. It was inspired by a number of experimental observations on the saccadic and gaze systems of monkeys and cats. Because of the generality of the approach undertaken, the system can be regarded as a demonstration of how parallel distributed processing principles, namely learning and attractor dynamics, can be integrated with experimental findings, as well as a biologically inspired controller for a dexterous robotic orientation device. The system is composed of three parts: a dynamic motor map, a push-pull circuitry, and a plant. The dynamics of the motor map is generated by a multi-layer network that was trained to compute a bidimensional temporal-spatial transformation. Simulation results indicate (1) that the system is able to reproduce some of the properties observed in the biological system at the neural and movement levels and (2) that the dynamics of the motor map remains stereotyped even when the motor map is subject to abnormal stimulation patterns. The latter result emphasizes the role of the topographic projection that connects the motor map to the push-pull circuitry in determining the features of the resulting movements.
243	connectionism	2013	Dovgopoly, A; Mercado, E	A connectionist model of category learning by individuals with high-functioning autism spectrum disorder	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) show atypical patterns of learning and generalization. We explored the possible impacts of autism-related neural abnormalities on perceptual category learning using a neural network model of visual cortical processing. When applied to experiments in which children or adults were trained to classify complex two-dimensional images, the model can account for atypical patterns of perceptual generalization. This is only possible, however, when individual differences in learning are taken into account. In particular, analyses performed with a self-organizing map suggested that individuals with high-functioning ASD show two distinct generalization patterns: one that is comparable to typical patterns, and a second in which there is almost no generalization. The model leads to novel predictions about how individuals will generalize when trained with simplified input sets and can explain why some researchers have failed to detect learning or generalization deficits in prior studies of category learning by individuals with autism. On the basis of these simulations, we propose that deficits in basic neural plasticity mechanisms may be sufficient to account for the atypical patterns of perceptual category learning and generalization associated with autism, but they do not account for why only a subset of individuals with autism would show such deficits. If variations in performance across subgroups reflect heterogeneous neural abnormalities, then future behavioral and neuroimaging studies of individuals with ASD will need to account for such disparities.
244	connectionism	2009	Botvinick, MM; Plaut, DC	Empirical and Computational Support for Context-Dependent Representations of Serial Order: Reply to Bowers, Damian, and Davis (2009)	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	J.S. Bowers, M. F. Damian, and C.J. Davis (2009) critiqued the computational model of serial order memory put forth in M. Botvinick and D. C. Plaut (2006), purporting to show that the model does not generalize in a way that people do. They attributed this supposed failure to the model's dependence on context-dependent representations, translating this argument into a general critique of all parallel distributed processing models. The authors reply here, addressing both Bowers et al.'s criticisms of the Botvinick and Plaut model and the former's assessment of parallel distributed processing models in general.
245	connectionism	2002	Kim, DH	Tuning of 2-DOF PID controller by immune algorithm	CEC'02: PROCEEDINGS OF THE 2002 CONGRESS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION, VOLS 1 AND 2	This paper represents that auto tuning of 2-DOF PID Controller can be effectively performed by immune algorithms. A number of tuning approaches for PID controllers are considered in the context of intelligent tuning methods. However, in the case of 2-DOF PID Controller, quite a few tuning based on the classical approach such a trial and error has been suggested. Also, a general view is provided that they are the special cases of either the linear model or the single control system. On the other hand, since the immune network system possesses a self organizing and distributed memory, it is thus adaptive to its external environment and allows a PDP (parallel distributed processing) network to complete patterns against the environmental situation. Also. It can provide optimal solution. Simulation results reveal that immune algorithms based tuning are an effective approaches to search for optimal or near optimal control.
246	connectionism	1997	Schooler, C; Neumann, E; Caplan, LJ; Roberts, BR	Stroop theory, memory, and prefrontal cortical functioning: Reply to Cohen et al (1997)	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	In this article, the authors respond to J. D. Cohen, K. O. Dunbar, D. hi. Batch and T. S. Braver's (1997) comment on their target article. The present article (a) takes issue with the characterization given by Cohen et al. of the authors' approach as a classical speed-of-processing account of Stroop effects, (b) discusses the value and relevance of other theoretical concepts, such as traditional accounts of working memory and parallel distributed processing (PDP) approaches to Stroop effects, (c) further examines the possibility that the differences the authors observed in Experiment 2 between normal participants' performance and that of participants with schizophrenia may have been due to distracter stimulus degradation, particularly for participants with schizophrenia, and (d) argues for the relevance of the prefrontal cortex, as well as other brain areas, in accounting for their results. The authors conclude with a final theoretical question.
247	connectionism	1997	McGuire, S; Plaut, DC	Systematicity and specialization in semantics: A computational account of optic aphasia	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Optic aphasic patients are selectively impaired at naming visually presented objects but demonstrate relative intact comprehension of those objects (e.g., by gesturing or categorization) and are able to name them when presented in other modalities (e.g., via tactile input). This and other modality-specific naming deficits have been taken as evidence that semantics is organized into distinct modality-specific subsystems. We adopt an alternative view in which semantics is a set of learned, internal representations within a parallel distributed processing system that maps between multiple input and output modalities. We account for the critical aspects of optic aphasia in terms of the effects of damage to such a system, despite its lack of modality-specific specialization. We show that the robustness of a task in such a system depends critically on its systematicity, and that modality-specific naming deficits can arise because naming is an unsystematic task.
248	connectionism	1996	Galletly, CA; Clark, CR; McFarlane, AC	Artificial neural networks: A prospective tool for the analysis of psychiatric disorders	JOURNAL OF PSYCHIATRY & NEUROSCIENCE	Artificial neural networks are computer simulations of biological parallel distributed processing systems, They are able to undertake complex pattern recognition tasks, including diagnostic classification, prediction of disease onset and prognosis, and identification of determinants of clinical decisions, These capabilities have been utilized in general medicine, but as yet there has been little application of artificial neural networks in psychiatric research, Artificial neural networks can also be used to create models of brain function, providing a paradigm for cognition and the organization of neural systems that demonstrates how changes at the cellular level can affect information processing, These models are able to encompass both the biological and the behavioral dimensions of psychiatric disorders.
249	connectionism	1993	TOURE, S; RABELO, L; VELASCO, T	ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR FLEXIBLE MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS SCHEDULING	COMPUTERS & INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING	Artificial neural       networks (ANNs) are information processing systems motivated by the goals of reproducing the cognitive processes and organizational models of neurobiological systems. By virtue of their computational structure,    ANN's      feature      attractive characteristics such as graceful degradation, robust recall with noisy and fragmented data, parallel distributed processing. generalization to patterns outside of the training set, nonlinear modeling capabilities, and learning. These computational features could provide enhanced inferencing functionality and real-time capabilities to develop approaches for traditional difficult problems such as flexible manufacturing system (FMS) scheduling. In this paper three different schemes of ANN's are applied to the FMS scheduling problem. These include a) relaxation-based networks, b) competitive-based schemes, and c) adaptive pattern recognition scheduling.
250	connectionism	2015	McNorgan, C; Chabal, S; O'Young, D; Lukic, S; Booth, JR	Task dependent lexicality effects support interactive models of reading: A meta-analytic neuroimaging review	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Models of reading must explain how orthographic input activates a phonological representation, and elicits the retrieval of word meaning from semantic memory. Comparisons between tasks that theoretically differ with respect to the degree to which they rely on connections between orthographic, phonological and semantic systems during reading can thus provide valuable insight into models of reading, but such direct comparisons are not well-represented in the literature. An ALE meta-analysis explored lexicality effects directly contrasting words and pseudowords using the lexical decision task and overt or covert naming, which we assume rely most on the semantic and phonological systems, respectively. Interactions between task and lexicality effects demonstrate that different demands of the lexical decision and naming tasks lead to different manifestations of lexicality effects. (c) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
251	connectionism	2011	Kimura, R; Kang, S; Takahashi, N; Usami, A; Matsuki, N; Fukai, T; Ikegaya, Y	Hippocampal Polysynaptic Computation	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Neural circuitry is a self-organizing arithmetic device that converts input to output and thereby remodels its computational algorithm to produce more desired output; however, experimental evidence regarding the mechanism by which information is modified and stored while propagating across polysynaptic networks is sparse. We used functional multineuron calcium imaging to monitor the spike outputs from thousands of CA1 neurons in response to the stimulation of two independent sites of the dentate gyrus in rat hippocampal networks ex vivo. Only pyramidal cells were analyzed based on post hoc immunostaining. Some CA1 pyramidal cells were observed to fire action potentials only when both sites were simultaneously stimulated (AND-like neurons), whereas other neurons fired in response to either site of stimulation but not to concurrent stimulation (XOR-like neurons). Both types of neurons were interlaced in the same network and altered their logical operation depending on the timing of paired stimulation. Repetitive paired stimulation for brief periods induced a persistent reorganization of AND and XOR operators, suggesting a flexibility in parallel distributed processing. We simulated these network functions in silico and found that synaptic modification of the CA3 recurrent excitation is pivotal to the shaping of logic plasticity. This work provides new insights into how microscopic synaptic properties are associated with the mesoscopic dynamics of complex microcircuits.
252	connectionism	2011	Stafford, T; Gurney, KN	Additive factors do not imply discrete processing stages: a worked example using models of the Stroop task	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Previously, it has been shown experimentally that the psychophysical law known as Pieron's Law holds for color intensity and that the size of the effect is additive with that of Stroop condition (Stafford et al., 2011). According to the additive factors method (Donders, 1868 1869/1969; Sternberg, 1998), additivity is assumed to indicate independent and discrete processing stages. We present computational modeling work, using an existing Parallel Distributed Processing model of the Stroop task (Cohen et al., 1990) and a standard model of decision making (Ratcliff, 1978). This demonstrates that additive factors can be successfully accounted for by existing single stage models of the Stroop effect. Consequently, it is not valid to infer either discrete stages or separate loci of effects from additive factors. Further, our modeling work suggests that information binding may be a more important architectural property for producing additive factors than discrete stages.
253	connectionism	2003	McClelland, JL; Plaut, DC; Gotts, SJ; Maia, TV	Developing a domain-general framework for cognition: What is the best approach?	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	We share with Anderson & Lebiere (A&L) (and with Newell before them) the goal of developing a domain-general framework for modeling cognition, and we take seriously the issue of evaluation criteria. We advocate a more focused approach than the one reflected in Newell's criteria, based on analysis of failures as well as successes of models brought into close contact with experimental data. A&L attribute the shortcomings of our parallel-distributed processing framework to a failure to acknowledge a symbolic level of thought. Our framework does acknowledge a symbolic level, contrary to their claim. What we deny is that the symbolic eve is the level at which the principles of cognitive processing should be formulated. Models cast at a symbolic level are sometimes useful as high-level approximations of the underlying mechanisms of thought. The adequacy of this approximation will continue to increase as symbolic modelers continue to incorporate principles of parallel distributed processing.
254	connectionism	1998	MacNamara, S; Cunningham, P; Byrne, J	Neural networks for language identification: A comparative study	INFORMATION PROCESSING & MANAGEMENT	Since the advent of Jordan's recurrent network [Jordan, M. I. (1986) Serial Order: A Parallel Distributed Processing Approach. Tech. Rep. No. 8604. Institute for Cognitive Science, University bf California, San Diego.] which allows: the processing of data with a temporal component, neural networks have been used routinely for sequence processing. This type of network is analysed in this paper for its ability to discriminate between different languages based on its processing of a small sample of text. The motivation for developing this model was for its potential use in the on-line version of a Trinity College 1872 Printed Catalogue, a library catalogue which has entries in 14 different languages spanning over 5 centuries. It was thought that neural networks would perform well where entries to be analysed comprised only a few words. The neural network's performance was compared with that of trigrams and a suffix/morphology analysis. The trigrams proved to be superior, classifying-over 92% of the entries correctly compared to 88% for the neural network and 85% for the morphology/suffix analysis. Trigrams were also far superior in the speed at which statistics were compiled and the rate at which text was processed. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
255	connectionism	1995	VAI, MK; XU, ZM	REPRESENTING KNOWLEDGE BY NEURAL NETWORKS FOR QUALITATIVE-ANALYSIS AND REASONING	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING	A systematic approach has been developed to construct neural networks for qualitative analysis and reasoning. These neural networks are used as specialized parallel distributed processors for solving constraint satisfaction problems. A typical application of such a neural network is to determine a reasonable change of a system after one or more of its variables are changed. A six-node neural network is developed to represent fundamental qualitative relations. A larger neural network can be constructed hierarchically for a system to be modeled by using six-node neural networks as building blocks. The complexity of the neural network building process is thus kept manageable. An example of developing a neural network reasoning model for a transistor equivalent circuit is demonstrated. The use of this neural network model in the equivalent circuit parameter extraction process is also described.
256	connectionism	1994	FORSTER, M; SAIDEL, E	CONNECTIONISM AND THE FATE OF FOLK PSYCHOLOGY - A REPLY TO RAMSEY, STICH AND GARON	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Ramsey, Stich and Garon (1991) argue that if the correct theory of mind is some parallel distributed processing theory, then folk psychology must be false.  Their idea is that if the nodes and connections that encode one representation are causally active then all representations encoded by the same set of nodes and connections are also causally active.  We present a clear, and concrete, counterexample to RSG's argument. In conclusion, we suggest that folk psychology and connectionism are best understood as complementary theories.  Each has different limitations, yet each will co-evolve with the other in an overlapping domain of 'normal' psychology.
257	connectionism	1992	DAWSON, MRW; SCHOPFLOCHER, DP	AUTONOMOUS PROCESSING IN PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING NETWORKS	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper critically examines the claim that parallel distributed processing (PDP) networks are autonomous learning systems. A PDP model of a simple distributed associative memory is considered. It is shown that the 'generic' PDP architecture cannot implement the computations required by this memory system without the aid of external control. In other words, the model is not autonomous. Two specific problems are highlighted (i) simultaneous learning and recall are not permitted to occur as would be required of an autonomous system; (ii) connections between processing units cannot simultaneously represent current and previous network activation as would be required if learning is to occur. Similar problems exist for more sophisticated networks constructed from the generic PDP architecture. We argue that this is because these models are not adequately constrained by the properties of the functional architecture assumed by PDP modelers. It is also argued that without such constraints, PDP researchers cannot claim to have developed an architecture radically different from that proposed by the Classical approach in cognitive science.
258	connectionism	2011	Bowers, JS	What is a grandmother cell? And how would you know if you found one?	CONNECTION SCIENCE	The key claim associated with a grandmother cell theory is that single neurons selectively represent one complex 'thing' (e.g. object and face). However, this theory is often mischaracterised in the cognitive and neuroscience literatures. I summarise two common confusions here. First, critics of grandmother cells often fail to distinguish between the selectivity and sparseness of neural firing and, as a result, predict (incorrectly) that one and only one neuron should fire in response to a given input. Second, critics often fail to distinguish between what a neuron responds to and what it represents - as detailed below - and as a result, predict (incorrectly) that a grandmother cell should fire in response to one and only one thing. I argue that these two confusions often lead to the premature rejection of grandmother cell theories.
259	connectionism	2008	Kemp, C; Tenenbaum, JB	Structured models of semantic cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Rogers & McClelland (R&M) criticize models that rely on structured representations such as categories, taxonomic hierarchies, and schemata, but we suggest that structured models can account for many of the phenomena that they describes. Structured approaches and parallel distributed processing (PDP) approaches operate at different levels of analysis, and may ultimately be compatible, but structured models seem more likely to offer immediate insight into many of the issues that R&M discuss.
260	connectionism	2001	Das, SK; Harvey, DJ; Biswas, R	Latency hiding in dynamic partitioning and load balancing of grid computing applications	FIRST IEEE/ACM INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON CLUSTER COMPUTING AND THE GRID, PROCEEDINGS	The Information Power Grid (IPG) concept developed by NASA is aimed to provide a metacomputing platform for large-scale distributed computations, by hiding the intricacies of a highly heterogeneous environment and yet maintaining adequate security. In this paper, we propose a latency-tolerant partitioning scheme that dynamically balances processor workloads on the IPG, and minimizes data movement and runtime communication. By simulating an unsteady adaptive mesh application on a wide area network, we study the performance of our load balancer under the Globus environment. The number of IPG nodes, the number of processors per node, and the interconnect speeds are parameterized to derive conditions under which the IPG would be suitable for parallel distributed processing of such applications. Experimental results demonstrate that effective solutions are achieved when the IPG nodes are connected by a high-speed asynchronous interconnection network.
261	connectionism	1991	CHRIST, G	TOWARD A MODEL OF ATTENTION AND COGNITION, USING A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACH .2. THE SWEEPING MODEL	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	This paper outlines a theoretical model of attention and cognition using artificial neural network properties, the Sweeping Model. This model includes a sensory memory, a self modifying neural network (capable of forming associations, and of pattern completion), a system applying synchronous sweeps of lateral inhibition across the neural network, and a subsystem to evaluate the body state of the system to control this sweep frequency. After further description, it will be argued that these components can result in behaviours such as learning and performing according to primary and secondary reinforcement rules.
262	connectionism	1991	CHRIST, G	TOWARD A MODEL OF ATTENTION AND COGNITION USING A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING APPROACH .1. BACKGROUND	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	0
263	connectionism	2016	Kendall, DL; Nadeau, SE	The Phonomotor Approach to Treating Phonological-Based Language Deficits in People With Aphasia	TOPICS IN LANGUAGE DISORDERS	The phonomotor treatment program for treating word-retrieval deficits among people with aphasia is inspired by a parallel distributed processing model of lexical processing and is focused at the level of individual phonemes and phoneme sequences. Because verbal production of words involves the translation of a lexical-semantic representation into phonological representations, training the repertoire of phonological sequences should enable individuals with anomia to regain the ability to learn words and sequences, generalize to linguistic items not trained, and continue growth following treatment termination. The development and refinement of the phonomotor treatment program, which began in 2000, have followed the 5-phase model for communication disorders and sciences framework outlined by R. Robey (2004). To date, there have been 8 published articles on the phonomotor treatment program. A large-scale randomized trial comparing phonomotor with standard of care for word-retrieval deficits is underway. The goal of this article is to review the theoretical framework, treatment procedures, current evidence, and future directions of the phonomotor protocol.
264	connectionism	2016	Bowers, JS; Vankov, II; Damian, MF; Davis, CJ	Why do some neurons in cortex respond to information in a selective manner? Insights from artificial neural networks	COGNITION	Why do some neurons in hippocampus and cortex respond to information in a highly selective manner? It has been hypothesized that neurons in hippocampus encode information in a highly selective manner in order to support fast learning without catastrophic interference, and that neurons in cortex encode information in a highly selective manner in order to co-activate multiple items in short-term memory (STM) without suffering a superposition catastrophe. However, the latter hypothesis is at odds with the widespread view that neural coding in the cortex is highly distributed in order to support generalization. We report a series of simulations that characterize the conditions in which recurrent Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) models of immediate serial can recall novel words. We found that these models learned localist codes when they succeeded in generalizing to novel words. That is, just as fast learning may explain selective coding in hippocampus, STM and generalization may help explain the existence of selective codes in cortex. (c) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
265	connectionism	2015	Joanisse, MF; McClelland, JL	Connectionist perspectives on language learning, representation and processing	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The field of formal linguistics was founded on the premise that language is mentally represented as a deterministic symbolic grammar. While this approach has captured many important characteristics of the world's languages, it has also led to a tendency to focus theoretical questions on the correct formalization of grammatical rules while also de-emphasizing the role of learning and statistics in language development and processing. In this review we present a different approach to language research that has emerged from the parallel distributed processing or 'connectionist' enterprise. In the connectionist framework, mental operations are studied by simulating learning and processing within networks of artificial neurons. With that in mind, we discuss recent progress in connectionist models of auditory word recognition, reading, morphology, and syntactic processing. We argue that connectionist models can capture many important characteristics of how language is learned, represented, and processed, as well as providing new insights about the source of these behavioral patterns. Just as importantly, the networks naturally capture irregular (non-rule-like) patterns that are common within languages, something that has been difficult to reconcile with rule-based accounts of language without positing separate mechanisms for rules and exceptions. WIREs Cogn Sci 2015, 6:235-247. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1340 For further resources related to this article, please visit the . Conflict of interest: The authors have declared no conflicts of interest for this article.
266	connectionism	2014	Suzuki, Y; Ibayashi, H; Kaneda, Y; Mineno, H	Proposal to sliding window-based support vector regression	KNOWLEDGE-BASED AND INTELLIGENT INFORMATION & ENGINEERING SYSTEMS 18TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE, KES-2014	This paper proposes a new methodology, Sliding Window-based Support Vector Regression (SW-SVR), for micrometeorological data prediction. SVR is derived from a statistical learning theory and can be used to predict a quantity forward in time based on training that uses past data. Although SVR is superior to traditional learning algorithms such as Artificial Neural Network (ANN), it is difficult to choose the suitable amount of training data to build an optimum SVR model for micrometeorological data prediction. This paper revealed the periodic characteristics of micrometeorological data and evaluated SW-SVR can adapt the appropriate amount of training data to build an optimum SVR model automatically using parallel distributed processing. The future prediction experiment was conducted on air temperature of Sapporo, Tokyo, Hamamatsu, and Naha. As a result, SW-SVR has improved prediction accuracy in Sapporo, and Tokyo. In addition, it has reduced calculation time by more than 96 % in all regions. (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier B.V.
267	connectionism	2013	Alderete, J; Tupper, P; Frisch, SA	Phonological constraint induction in a connectionist network: learning OCP-Place constraints from data	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	A significant problem in computational language learning is that of inferring the content of well-formedness constraints from input data. In this article, we approach the constraint induction problem as the gradual adjustment of subsymbolic constraints in a connectionist network. In particular, we develop a multi-layer feed-forward network that learns the constraints that underlie restrictions against homorganic consonants, or 'OCP-Place constraints', in Arabic roots. The network is trained using standard learning procedures in connection science with a representative sample of Arabic roots. The trained network is shown to classify actual and novel Arabic roots in ways that are qualitatively parallel to a psycholinguistic study of Arabic. Statistical analysis of network behavior also shows that activations of nodes in the hidden layer correspond well with violations of symbolic well-formedness constraints familiar from generative phonology. In sum, it is shown that at least some constraints operative in phonotactic grammar can be learned from data and do not have to be stipulated in advance of learning. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
268	connectionism	2012	Close, J; Pothos, EM	"Object Categorization: Reversals and Explanations of the Basic-Level Advantage" (Rogers & Patterson, 2007): A simplicity account	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	T. T. Rogers and K. Patterson (2007), in their article "Object Categorization: Reversals and Explanations of the Basic-Level Advantage" (Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 136, 451469), reported an impressive set of results demonstrating a reversal of the highly robust basic-level advantage both in patients with semantic dementia and in healthy individuals engaged in a speeded categorization task. To explain their results, as well as the usual basic-level advantage seen in healthy individuals, the authors employed a parallel distributed processing theory of conceptual knowledge. In this paper, we introduce an alternative way of explaining the results of Rogers and Patterson, which is premised on a more restricted set of assumptions born from standard categorization theory. Specifically, we provide evidence that their results can be accounted for based on the predictions of the simplicity model of unsupervised categorization.
269	connectionism	2008	Rogers, TT; McClelland, JL	A simple model from a powerful framework that spans levels of analysis	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The commentaries reflect three core themes that pertain not just to our theory, but to the enterprise of connectionist modeling more generally. The first concerns the relationship between a cognitive theory and an implemented computer model. Specifically, how does one determine, when a model departs from the theory it exemplifies, whether the depature is a useful simplification or a critical flaw? We argue that the answer to this question depends partially upon the model's intended function, and we suggest that connectionist models have important functions beyond the commonly accepted goals of fitting data and making predictions. The second theme concerns perceived in-principle limitations of the connectionist approach to cognition, and the specific concerns these perceived limitations raise for our theory. We argue that the approach is not in fact limited in the ways our critics suggest. One common misconception, that connectionist models cannot address abstract or relational structure, is corrected through new simulations showing directly that such structure and be captured. The third theme concerns the relationship between parallel distributed processing (PDP) models and structured probabilistic approaches. In this case we argue that there the difference between the approaches is not merely one of levels. Our PDP approach differs from structured statistical approaches at all of Marr's levels, including the characterization of the goals of cognitive computations, and of the respresentations and algorithms used.
270	connectionism	1993	CHRISLEY, RL	CONNECTIONISM, COGNITIVE MAPS AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF OBJECTIVITY	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	It is claimed that there are pre-objective phenomena, which cognitive science should explain by employing the notion of non-conceptual representational content. It is argued that a match between parallel distributed processing (PDP) and non-conceptual content (NCC) not only provides a means of refuting recent criticisms of PDP as a cognitive architecture; it also provides a vehicle for NCC that is required by naturalism. A connectionist cognitive mapping algorithm is used as a case study to examine the affinities between PDP and NCC.
271	connectionism	1992	SELTZER, B	AN ANATOMY OF PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	0
272	connectionism	1991	GUAN, BT; GERTNER, G	MACHINE LEARNING AND ITS POSSIBLE ROLES IN FOREST SCIENCE	AI APPLICATIONS	Four major machine learning paradigms have potential applications in forest research:  the inductive paradigm, the analytic paradigm, the genetic algorithms paradigm, and the parallel distributed processing, also known as the artificial neural network paradigm. In addition to helping forest researchers acquire knowledge and formulate production rules for expert systems, machine learning provides alternative methods for solving diverse problems, such as integrating forestry literature, data analysis, and modeling (both quantitative and qualitative). Machine learning methods appropriate for accomplishing the tasks are identified.
273	connectionism	2016	Tryon, WW	Underreliance on Mechanistic Models: Comment on Ferguson (2015)	AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST	Ferguson (2015) proposed that our overreliance on mechanistic models is responsible for the public's negative view of psychology. On the contrary, I claim that our explanations do not actually explain because they lack mechanism information and that is why the public has a negative view of psychology. Some of the mechanism information required to move from interpretations to explanations can be found in parallel distributed processing connectionist neural network models of psychology and behavior.
274	connectionism	2015	Cox, CR; Seidenberg, MS; Rogers, TT	Connecting functional brain imaging and Parallel Distributed Processing	LANGUAGE COGNITION AND NEUROSCIENCE	Functional neuroimaging and Parallel Distributed Processing (PDP) theory, both introduced to cognitive science in the 1980s, led to influential research programmes that have proceeded in parallel with little mutual influence. The PDP approach advanced specific claims about the nature of neural representations that, perhaps surprisingly, have gone largely untested in functional brain imaging. One reason may be the widespread use of univariate statistical methods for analysing brain imaging data, which typically rely on assumptions that render them unable to detect distributed representations of the kind that PDP predicts. More recent multivariate methods for image analysis may be better suited to detecting such representations. In the current article, we consider why univariate methods have been insufficient to test PDP's representational claims, articulate some of the properties that neural representations ought to have if the PDP view is valid and then survey the recent neuroimaging literature for evidence that neural representations do or do not have these properties. The survey establishes that the PDP view of distributed representations has considerable evidential support. This analysis underscores the importance of understanding how the assumptions underlying methods for analysing functional imaging data constrain the kinds of questions that can be addressed. We then consider the implications for our developing understanding of the neural bases of cognition and for the design of future brain imaging studies.
275	connectionism	2014	Yermolayeva, Y; Rakison, DH	Connectionist Modeling of Developmental Changes in Infancy: Approaches, Challenges, and Contributions	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	Connectionist models have been applied to many phenomena in infant development including perseveration, language learning, categorization, and causal perception. In this article, we discuss the benefits of connectionist networks for the advancement of theories of early development. In particular, connectionist models contribute novel testable predictions, instantiate the theorized mechanism of change, and create a unifying framework for understanding infant learning and development. We relate these benefits to the 2 primary approaches used in connectionist models of infant development. The first approach employs changes in neural processing as the basis for developmental changes, and the second employs changes in infants' experiences. The review sheds light on the unique hurdles faced by each approach as well as the challenges and solutions related to both, particularly with respect to the identification of critical model components, parameter specification, availability of empirical data, and model comparison. Finally, we discuss the future of modeling work as it relates to the study of development. We propose that connectionist networks stand to make a powerful contribution to the generation and revision of theories of early child development. Furthermore, insights from connectionist models of early development can improve the understanding of developmental changes throughout the life span.
276	connectionism	2012	Ruzgar, E; Erciyes, K	Clustering based distributed phylogenetic tree construction	EXPERT SYSTEMS WITH APPLICATIONS	Phylogenetic tree construction has received much attention recently due to the availability of vast biological data. In this study, we provide a three step method to build phylogenetic trees. Firstly, a density-based clustering algorithm is used to provide clusters of the population at hand using the distance matrix which shows the distances of the species. Secondly, a phylogenetic tree for each cluster is constructed by using the neighbor-joining (NJ) algorithm and finally, the roots of the small phylogenetic trees are connected again by the NJ algorithm to form one large phylogenetic tree. To our knowledge, this is the first method for building phylogenetic trees that uses clustering prior to forming the tree. As such, it provides independent phylogenetic tree formation within each cluster as the second step, hence is suitable for parallel/distributed processing, enabling fast processing of very large biological data sets. The proposed method, clustered neighbor-joining (CNJ) is applied to 145 samples from the Y-DNA Haplogroup G. Distances between male samples are the variation in their set of Y-chromosomal short tandem repeat (STR) values. We show that the clustering method we use is superior to other clustering methods as applied to Y-DNA data and also independent, fast distributed construction of phylogenetic trees is possible with this method. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
277	connectionism	2011	Alfehaid, WM; Khan, AI	Cellular Microscopic Pattern Recogniser - A Distributed Computational Approach for Macroscopic Event Detection in WSN	PROCEEDINGS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCE (ICCS)	A light weight one-shot learning pattern recognition scheme, known as Cellular Microscopic Pattern Recogniser (CMPR) is proposed that will lead to macroscopic event detection with wireless sensor networks (WSN). The scheme simplifies computations for energy conservation and speeds up recognition by leveraging the parallel distributed processing capabilities of WSN. Experimental results show that the scheme is able to detect noisy patterns with comparable accuracy to the conventional techniques.
278	connectionism	2010	MacLeod, C; Capanni, NF	Artificial biochemical networks: a different connectionist paradigm	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REVIEW	Connectionist models are usually based on artificial neural networks. However, there is another route towards parallel distributed processing. This is by considering the origins of the intelligence displayed by the single celled organisms known as protoctists. Such intelligence arises by means of the biochemical interactions within the animal. An artificial model of this might therefore be termed an artificial biochemical network or ABN. This paper describes the attributes of such networks and illustrates their abilities in pattern recognition problems and in generating time-varying signals of a type which can be used in many control tasks. The flexibility of the system is explained using legged robots as an example. The networks are trained using back propagation and evolutionary algorithms such as genetic algorithms.
279	connectionism	2008	Opfer, JE; Doumas, LAA	Analogy and conceptual change in childhood	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Analogical inferences are an important consequence of the way semantic knowledge is represented, that is, with relations as explicit structures that can take arguments. We review evidence that this feature of semantic cognition successfully predicts how quickly and broadly children's concepts change with experience and show that Rogers & McClelland's (R&M's) parallel distributed processing (PDP) model fails to simulate these cognitive changes due to its handling of relational information.
280	connectionism	2002	Kim, DH; Lee, KY	Neural networks control by immune network algorithm based auto-weight function tuning	PROCEEDING OF THE 2002 INTERNATIONAL JOINT CONFERENCE ON NEURAL NETWORKS, VOLS 1-3	In this paper auto-tuning scheme of weight function in the neural networks has been suggested by immune algorithm for nonlinear process. A number of structures of the neural networks are considered as learning methods for control system. A general view is provided that they are the special cases of either the membership functions or the modification of network structure in the neural networks. On the other hand, since the immune network system possesses a self organizing and distributed memory, it is thus adaptive to its external environment and allows a PDP (parallel distributed processing) network to complete patterns against the environmental situation. Also. It can provide optimal solution. Simulation results by immune based weight tuning reveal that immune algorithm is an effective approach to search for optimal or near optimal process control.
281	connectionism	2001	Ponzoni, I; Vazquez, GE; Sanchez, MC; Brignole, NB	Parallel observability analysis on networks of workstations	COMPUTERS & CHEMICAL ENGINEERING	In this work we present the parallelisation of the global strategy with first least-connected node (GS-FLCN), which is a novel structural technique for the classification of unmeasured variables in process plant instrumentation design. The algorithm aims at partitioning the process' occurrence matrix to a specific block lower-triangular form. A parallel master-workers philosophy is employed to search for all the paths of a given length existing in the associated graph. The code was conceived for distributed environments and the implementation was carried out using the parallel virtual machine (PVM) library. The performance of the parallel algorithm was tested for industrial case studies and the results were compared with those yielded by the sequential version. The time savings achieved thanks to the parallelisation. were significant. Besides, in the parallel version, more paths can be explored per unit time. In practice, this implies greater robustness. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
282	connectionism	1998	Dehaene, S	The development of delayed response: Parallel distributed processing lacks neural plausibility	DEVELOPMENTAL SCIENCE	Munakata's model of the A-not-B task provides an excellent fit to behavioral data from human infants. From a neuropsychological standpoint, however, its architecture is not very plausible. Dehaene and Changeux's (1989) neuronal model of delayed response tasks, while admittedly very simple, relies on identified features of brain architecture such as multiple hierarchical pathways, bistable clusters with sustained activity, and diffuse reward systems. Ways in which the insights provided by both models might be combined are discussed.
283	connectionism	1998	Matti, L; Anneli, T; Martti, J	Modelling anomia by the discrete two-stage word production architecture	JOURNAL OF NEUROLINGUISTICS	Recent advancements in computational modelling have opened new ways to understand the underlying mechanisms of cognitive deficits resulting from brain damage. These implementations have followed interactive activation and parallel distributed processing approaches and the computational potential of more transparent and serial cognitive architectures has not received much attention. We tested the ability of the discrete two-stage word production model to account for naming response patterns in aphasia. Our implementation is a simple local connectionist model with two serially ordered networks representing lexical-semantic and phoneme levels. Anemic deficits were simulated by manipulating three parameters: noise within the two networks leading to semantically and phonologically based errors, and between-level threshold leading to no responses. Comparisons to actual naming data from 10 aphasics showed that this simple model provides a rather good fit to a variety of clinically observed naming response patterns. However, the existence of output-type semantic naming errors in some aphasics call for a modified discrete two-stage model which would pos sess monitoring mechanisms for lexical output. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
284	connectionism	1997	Parks, RW; Cardoso, J	Parallel distributed processing and executive functioning: Tower of Hanoi neural networkmodel in healthy controls and left frontal lobe patients	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Previous clinical studies have demonstrated that executive functioning has a significant association with the frontal lobes. In this study we examined executive functioning with parallel distributed processing (PDP) methodology by attempting to replicate Tower of Hanoi (TOH) neuropsychological test performance differences in normal healthy controls vs. left frontal lobe patients. Initial theoretical experiments were carried out to solve computer subprocessing constraints of the TOH partially by determining the programming prerequisites for a specific number of rings, efficient sequencing, and a general learning rule. These preliminary studies were then modified using a back-propagation neurocomputational approach. Computer program output showed a resemblance to normal controls' TOH moves. Degrading of the left frontal lobe patients' network resulted in characteristic impairments of executive functioning, i.e., perseveration and rule-braking.
285	connectionism	1997	Scutt, TW; Damper, RI	Biologically-motivated learning in adaptive mobile robots	SMC '97 CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS - 1997 IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS, VOLS 1-5: CONFERENCE THEME: COMPUTATIONAL CYBERNETICS AND SIMULATION	Over recent years, the focus of artificial intelligence (AI) research has shifted from top-down simulation of high-level cognitive functions based on (essentially-ungrounded) symbolic computations to consideration of the way that intelligent behaviour can emerge in bottom-up fashion in systems situated in the 'real' world. Inspirations from neurobiology and concepts of neural information processing have been very influential in this 'new' AI: most usually in the guise of 'parallel distributed processing' approaches operating at a high level of abstraction, or the more detailed and biologically-realistic 'computational neuroscience' paradigm. In this paper, we describe a biologically-motivated approach to learning in situated robots based on the computational neuroscience paradigm. The mechanisms by which such learning occurs are habituation, sensitisation and classical conditioning of the neural responses involved in basic, pre-existing ('hard-wired') reflexes. Emergent light-seeking and collision-avoidance behaviors are observed in an adaptive mobile robot embodying these learning principles, as a result of interaction with its environment.
286	connectionism	1995	ROGERS, GW; SOLKA, JL; PRIEBE, CE	A PDP APPROACH TO LOCALIZED FRACTAL DIMENSION COMPUTATION WITH SEGMENTATION BOUNDARIES	SIMULATION	A parallel distributed processing approach to the computation of localized fractal dimension values in imagery is presented. This approach is a further development of the covering method which requires only nearest neighbor communication. A major benefit of our approach is the ability to readily incorporate any boundary information that may be available. Many fractal textures or surfaces are fractal only in distribution. With this in mind, we show that comparison of the fractal dimension distributions via Kullback-Leibler can give an improved texture discrimination capability over comparison of computed fractal dimension. Results are presented for a set of textures.
287	connectionism	1994	MCCLELLAND, JL	THE INTERACTION OF NATURE AND NURTURE IN DEVELOPMENT - A PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING PERSPECTIVE	INTERNATIONAL PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE, VOL 1: LEADING THEMES	0
288	connectionism	1992	YOON, Y; PETERSON, L	ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS - AN EMERGING NEW TECHNIQUE	DATA BASE	The artificial neural network is at the heart of an emerging technique, which many academicians and practitioners are using very productively due to its high performance in addressing complex problems.  Although the ANN has not yet reached its full potential, the technique has demonstrated the capability of enhancing performance in a broad range of problems.  This article presents an overview of the artificial neural network, a taxonomy of its learning paradigm, and its application areas.
289	connectionism	1990	LYNGZEIDETSON, AE	MASSIVELY PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING AND A COMPUTATIONALIST FOUNDATION FOR COGNITIVE SCIENCE	BRITISH JOURNAL FOR THE PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	0
290	connectionism	1990	EWERT, JP; SCHWIPPERT, WW; BENEKE, TW	PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING OF CONFIGURAL FEATURES OF MOVING-OBJECTS IN THE TOADS VISUAL-SYSTEM	PARALLEL PROCESSING IN NEURAL SYSTEMS AND COMPUTERS	0
291	connectionism	1989	LOY, DG	PREFACE TO THE SPECIAL ISSUE ON PARALLEL DISTRIBUTED-PROCESSING AND NEURAL NETWORKS	COMPUTER MUSIC JOURNAL	0
292	connectionism	2016	Chang, YN; Welbourne, S; Lee, CY	Exploring orthographic neighborhood size effects in a computational model of Chinese character naming	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Orthographic neighborhood (N) size effects have been extensively studied in English consistently producing a facilitatory effect in word naming tasks. In contrast, several recent studies on Chinese character naming have demonstrated an inhibitory effect of neighborhood size. Response latencies tend to be inhibited by inconsistent characters with large neighborhoods relative to small neighborhoods. These differences in neighborhood effects between languages may depend on the characteristics (depth) of the mapping between orthography and phonology. To explore this, we first conducted a behavioral experiment to investigate the relationship between neighborhood size, consistency and reading response. The results showed an inhibitory effect of neighborhood size for inconsistent characters but a facilitatory effect for consistent characters. We then developed two computational models, based on parallel distributed processing principles to try and capture the nature of the processing that leads to these results in Chinese character naming. Simulations using models based on the triangle model of reading indicated that consistency and neighborhood size interact with the division of labor between semantics and phonology to produce these effects. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
293	connectionism	2016	Vanmarcke, S; Calders, F; Wagemans, J	The Time-Course of Ultrarapid Categorization: The Influence of Scene Congruency and Top-Down Processing	I-PERCEPTION	Although categorization can take place at different levels of abstraction, classic studies on semantic labeling identified the basic level, for example, dog, as entry point for categorization. Ultrarapid categorization tasks have contradicted these findings, indicating that participants are faster at detecting superordinate-level information, for example, animal, in a complex visual image. We argue that both seemingly contradictive findings can be reconciled within the framework of parallel distributed processing and its successor Leabra (Local, Error-driven and Associative, Biologically Realistic Algorithm). The current study aimed at verifying this prediction in an ultrarapid categorization task with a dynamically changing presentation time (PT) for each briefly presented object, followed by a perceptual mask. Furthermore, we manipulated two defining task variables: level of categorization (basic vs. superordinate categorization) and object presentation mode (object-in-isolation vs. object-in-context). In contradiction with previous ultrarapid categorization research, focusing on reaction time, we used accuracy as our main dependent variable. Results indicated a consistent superordinate processing advantage, coinciding with an overall improvement in performance with longer PT and a significantly more accurate detection of objects in isolation, compared with objects in context, at lower stimulus PT. This contextual disadvantage disappeared when PT increased, indicating that figure-ground separation with recurrent processing is vital for meaningful contextual processing to occur.
294	connectionism	2015	Apfelbaum, KS; McMurray, B	Relative cue encoding in the context of sophisticated models of categorization: Separating information from categorization	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Traditional studies of human categorization often treat the processes of encoding features and cues as peripheral to the question of how stimuli are categorized. However, in domains where the features and cues are less transparent, how information is encoded prior to categorization may constrain our understanding of the architecture of categorization. This is particularly true in speech perception, where acoustic cues to phonological categories are ambiguous and influenced by multiple factors. Here, it is crucial to consider the joint contributions of the information in the input and the categorization architecture. We contrasted accounts that argue for raw acoustic information encoding with accounts that posit that cues are encoded relative to expectations, and investigated how two categorization architectures-exemplar models and back-propagation parallel distributed processing models-deal with each kind of information. Relative encoding, akin to predictive coding, is a form of noise reduction, so it can be expected to improve model accuracy; however, like predictive coding, the use of relative encoding in speech perception by humans is controversial, so results are compared to patterns of human performance, rather than on the basis of overall accuracy. We found that, for both classes of models, in the vast majority of parameter settings, relative cues greatly helped the models approximate human performance. This suggests that expectation-relative processing is a crucial precursor step in phoneme categorization, and that understanding the information content is essential to understanding categorization processes.
295	connectionism	2015	Biswas, A; Sahu, PK; Bhowmick, A; Chandra, M	Hindi phoneme classification using Wiener filtered wavelet packet decomposed periodic and aperiodic acoustic feature	COMPUTERS & ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING	Wavelet packet (WP) acoustic features are found to be very promising in unvoiced phoneme classification task but they are less effective to capture periodic information from voiced speech. This motivated us to develop a wavelet packet based feature extraction technique that signifies both the periodic and aperiodic information. This method is based on parallel distributed processing technique inspired by the human speech perception process. This front end feature processing technique employs Equivalent Rectangular Bandwidth (ERB) filter like wavelet speech feature extraction method called Wavelet ERB Sub-band based Periodicity and Aperiodicity Decomposition (WERB-SPADE). Winer filter is used at front end to minimize the noise for further processing. The speech signal is filtered by 24 band ERB like wavelet filter banks, and then the output of each sub-band is processed through comb filter. Each comb filter is designed individually for each sub-band to decompose the signal into periodic and aperiodic features. Thus it carries the periodic information without losing certain important information like formant transition incorporated in aperiodic features. Hindi phoneme classification experiments with a standard HMM recognizer under both clean-training and multi-training condition is conducted. This technique shows significant improvement in voiced phoneme class without affecting the performance of unvoiced phoneme class. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
296	connectionism	2015	Hirano, M; Takase, H; Yoshida, K	Evaluation of a Sector-hash Based Rapid File Detection Method for Monitoring Infrastructure-as-a-Service Cloud Platforms	PROCEEDINGS 10TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON AVAILABILITY, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY ARES 2015	Current computer forensics tools have some limitations on anti-forensics attacks, cloud computing, and a large increase in the size of forensics targets. To solve these problems, this paper proposes a system that preserves storage data on virtual machines by acquiring all data sectors with time stamps. The proposed system can restore a previous state of a block device at any date and time that is specified by an investigator. The proposed system aims to monitor users' behavior in Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) cloud platforms. This paper also presents a rapid file detection system that finds a target file from a large collection of the acquired data sectors by using sector-hashes and parallel distributed processing. This system enables investigators to track and to find a target file that is related to incidents or crimes in the cloud. First, this paper reports the preliminary experiments of a sector-hash based file detection method on three major operating systems for evaluating its effectiveness. We present a design and an implementation of the proposed monitoring and target file detection system by using Xen hypervisor and MapReduce. We report results of its performance evaluation. Finally, we discuss possible methods to improve the performance and the limitations of the current proposed mechanism.
297	connectionism	2015	Marzi, C; Pirrelli, V	A Neuro-Computational Approach to Understanding the Mental Lexicon	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Human lexical knowledge does not appear to be organised to minimise storage, but rather to maximise processing efficiency. The way lexical information is stored reflects the way it is dynamically processed, accessed and retrieved. A detailed analysis of the way words are memorised, of the dynamic interaction between lexical representations and distribution and degrees of regularity in input data, can shed some light on the emergence of structures and relations within fully-stored words. We believe that a bottom-up investigation of low-level memory and processing functions can help understand the cognitive mechanisms that govern word processing in the mental lexicon. Neuro-computational models can play an important role in this inquiry, as they help understand the dynamic nature of lexical representations by establishing an explanatory connection between lexical structures and processing models dictated by the micro-functions of human brain. Starting from some linguistic, psycholinguistic and neuro-physiological evidence supporting a dynamic view of the mental lexicon as an integrative system, we illustrate Temporal Self Organising-Maps (TSOMs), artificial neural networks that can model such a view by memorising time series of symbolic units (words) as routinized patterns of short-term node activation. On the basis of a simple pool of principles of adaptive Hebbian synchronisation, TSOMs can perceive possible surface relations between word forms and store them by partially overlapping activation patterns, reflecting gradient levels of lexical specificity, from holistic to decompositional lexical representations. We believe that TSOMs offer an algorithmic model of the emergence of high-level, global and language-specific morphological structure through the working of low-level, language-aspecific processing functions, thus promising to bridge the persisting gap between high-level principles of grammar architecture (lexicon vs. rules), computational correlates (storage vs. processing) and low-level principles and localisations of brain functions. Extensions of the current TSOM architecture are envisaged and their theoretical implications are discussed.
298	connectionism	2015	Peter, JD; Zollweg, JA; Klinck, H; Clark, CW	Data Mining Sound Archives: A New Scalable Algorithm for Parallel-Distributing Processing	2015 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining Workshop (ICDMW)	This paper discusses a new algorithm, called the acoustic data-mining accelerator (ADA), which was developed to mine large sound archives for signals of interest including animal vocalizations. Background information on the development of ADA is provided, summarizing various projects that have utilized this technology since 2009. Performance was evaluated by comparing runtimes and efficiency metrics for two marine mammal detection algorithms that were applied to a 3-week single channel acoustic data set (sampled at 192 kHz and with 16 bit resolution). A total of four configurations (1, 8, 16 and 64 workers) demonstrated processing scalability. Results showed that each detection algorithm successfully processed the data set in all four configurations without changing the ADA algorithm. The fastest case (64 workers), had a total runtime performance of 1.5 hours; making the ADA 13 times more efficient than the serial case. Using a single worker it took more than 18 hours to process the same 3-week data set. Concurrent processing of both data-mining algorithms using 64 workers showed the highest efficiency gain (23x) compared to sequentially processing the data with a single worker.
299	connectionism	2014	Gregoire, L; Perruchet, P; Poulin-Charronnat, B	About the unidirectionality of interference: Insight from the musical Stroop effect	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The asymmetry of interference in a Stroop task usually refers to the well-documented result that incongruent colour words slow colour naming (Stroop effect) but incongruent colours do not slow colour word reading (no reverse Stroop effect). A few other studies have suggested that, more generally, a reverse Stroop effect can be occasionally observed but at the expense of the Stroop effect itself, as if interference was inherently unidirectional, from the stronger to the weaker of the two competing processes. We describe here a situation conducive to a pervasive mutual interference effect. Musicians were exposed to congruent and incongruent note name/note position patterns, and they were asked either to read the word while ignoring the location of the note within the staff, or to name the note while ignoring the note name written inside the note picture. Most of the participants exhibited interference in the two tasks. Overall, this result pattern runs against the still prevalent model of the Stroop phenomenon [Cohen, J. D., Dunbar, K., & McClelland, J. L. (1990). On the control of automatic processes: A parallel distributed processing account of the Stroop effect. Psychological Review, 97(3), 332-361]. However, further analyses lend support to one of the key tenets of the model, namely that the pattern of interference depends on the relative strength of the two competing pathways. The reasons for the impressive differences between the results collected in the present study and in the standard colour-word (or picture-word) paradigms are also examined. We suggest that these differences reveal the importance of stimulus-response contingency in the formation of automatisms.
300	connectionism	2014	Indira, AK; KavithaDevi, MK	Effective Integrated Parallel Distributed Processing Approach in Optimized Multi-cloud computing Environment	2014 SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ADVANCED COMPUTING	Cloud computing service make possible applications by given that visualized resources that can be energetically allocated to virtual clusters. Nowadays IT companies and business companies make use of cloud environment for virtual storage and managing users. The job organization is the input position in cloud service and job arrangement troubles is vital competence of the whole cloud services. Job arrangement mechanism is the range of appropriate property for job implementation. A job arrangement has to make happy for virtual users to decide about Quality of Service. In this paper, the proposed method is used to enhance job arrangement and resource allotment by minimizing make span and reducing source price and safeguard error acceptance and quality service. The proposed algorithms have been evaluated with existing scheduling policies through CloudSim toolkit. The experimental results show that proposed framework gives better results in terms of execution time, user response, execution cost and time on different cloud workloads as compared to existing algorithms.
301	distributed	2011	Bardone, E	Seeking Chances: From Biased Rationality to Distributed Cognition	SEEKING CHANCES: FROM BIASED RATIONALITY TO DISTRIBUTED COGNITION	
302	distributed	2007	Magnus, PD	Distributed cognition and the task of science	SOCIAL STUDIES OF SCIENCE	This paper gives a characterization of distributed cognition (cl-cog) and explores ways that the framework might be applied in studies of science. I argue that a system can only be given a d-cog description if it is thought of as performing a task. Turning our attention to science, we can try to give a global d-cog account of science or local cl-cog accounts of particular scientific projects. Several accounts of science can be seen as global d-cog accounts: Robert Merton's sociology of scientific norms, Philip Kitcher's 20th-century account of cognitive labor, and Kitcher's 21st-century notion of well-ordered science. Problems that arise for them arise just because of the way that they attribute a function to science. The paper concludes by considering local d-cog accounts. Here, too, the task is the crux of the matter.
303	distributed	2007	Nova, N; Wehrle, T; Goslin, J; Bourquin, Y; Dillenbourg, P	Collaboration in a multi-user game: impacts of an awareness tool on mutual modeling	MULTIMEDIA TOOLS AND APPLICATIONS	This paper presents an experimental research that focuses on collaboration in a multi-player game. The aim of the project is to study the cognitive impacts of awareness tools, i.e., artifacts that allow users of a collaborative system to be aware of what is going on in the joint virtual environment. The focus is on finding an effect on performance as well as on the representation an individual builds of what his partner knows, plans and intends to do (i.e., mutual modeling). We find that using awareness tools has a significant effect by improving task performance. However, the players who were provided with this tool did not show any improvement of their mutual modeling. Further analysis on contrasted groups revealed that there was an effect of the awareness tool on mutual modeling for players who spent a large amount of time using the tool.
304	distributed	2007	Chandrasekharan, S; Stewart, TC	The origin of epistemic structures and proto-representations	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Organisms across species use the strategy of generating structures in their environment to lower cognitive complexity. Examples include pheromones, markers, color codes, etc. We provide a model of how such structures originate, and present a simulation where organisms with only reactive behavior learn, within their lifetime, to add such structures to their world to lower cognitive load. This implementation is then extended to show that the same underlying process could generate internal traces of the world (memories) in an internal environment. This model provides a novel account of the origin of internal representations. Further, as both external and internal traces are generated using the same mechanism, the model shows how an extended mind could be implemented. Also, as the stored internal traces develop entirely out of actions, these action components could be activated implicitly. This feature explains the origin of enactable and action-oriented mental content, suggested by recent experiments.
305	distributed	2004	Harris, R	Integrationism, language, mind and world	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	These are mainly comments on other papers printed in this issue, originating from a conference that I was unfortunately unable to attend. So, I address them with the disadvantage of not having taken part in any discussion that may have followed their original presentation. This is already one kind of decontextualization, but it is not something I can now do much about. Some of the papers printed here have nothing to say about integrationism at all. These I do not comment on. I examine the prospect of fruitful collaboration between integrationists and proponents of 'distributed cognition'. (C) 2004 Roy Harris. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
306	distributed	2004	Ross, D	Metalinguistic signalling for coordination amongst social agents	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This paper argues that critics of the established paradigm in linguistics exaggerate if they go so far as to doubt that natural language are systems for digital signalling. On the contrary, explaining how digital signalling is possible amongst creatures-H. sapiens-whose brains are probably not serial processors remains a primary task for cognitive science. In the context of accounts of mind based on the distributed cognition model, the appropriate technology for this task is evolutionary game theory. I show how evolutionary game theory can be used to state Dennett's theory of the relationship between language and the etiology of the human narrative self more precisely than Dennett has done. I conclude by responding to some questions posed by Clark (2002) on the extent to which Dermett's theory of the self implies that possession of language confers unique cognitive capacities on humans. It does so in suggesting that, in terms of the view defended in this paper, humans can use digital signalling to play strategic games that have as outcomes games in which the players are transformed into agents with different utility functions and, hence, new identities. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
307	distributed	2004	Peltokorpi, V	Transactive memory directories in small work units	PERSONNEL REVIEW	Despite the increased importance for companies to control their intangible assets, little empirical research has been made on the linkages between single and distributed cognition in organizations. In this paper, the transactive memory concept is extended and adapted to examine the antecedents and consequences of directory formation in the Nordic subsidiaries in Japan. Value congruence, psychological safety, organizational commitment, and interpersonal and electronic communication are proposed to have a positive impact on directories. The directories are proposed to have positive linkage with service capital Regression analyses show that the most of the independent variables have a statistically significant relationship with directories. Further, interpersonal communication mediates the impact of value congruence and psychological safety to directories. Directories were also found to have a positive relationship with the service capital.
308	distributed	1999	Patel, VL; Kaufman, DR; Allen, VG; Shortliffe, EH; Cimino, JJ; Greenes, RA	Toward a framework for computer-mediated collaborative design in medical informatics	METHODS OF INFORMATION IN MEDICINE	The development and implementation of enabling tools and methods that provide ready access to knowledge and information are among the central goals of medical informatics. The need for multi-institutional collaboration in the development of such tools and methods is increasingly being recognized. Collaboration involves communication, which typically involves individuals who work together at the same location. With the evolution of electronic modalities for communication, we seek to understand the role that such technologies can play in supporting collaboration, especially when the participants are geographically separated. Using the InterMed Collaboratory as a subject of study, we have analyzed their activities as an exercise in computer- and network-mediated collaborative design. We report on the cognitive, sociocultural, and logistical issues encountered when scientists from diverse organizations a nd backgrounds use communications technologies while designing and implementing shared products. Results demonstrate that it is important to match carefully the content with the mode of communication, identifying, for example, suitable uses of E-mail, conference calls, and face-to-face meetings. The special role of leaders in guiding and facilitating the group activities can also be seen, regardless of the communication setting in which the interactions occur. Most important is the proper use of technology to support the evolution of a shared vision of group goals and methods, an element that is clearly necessary before successful collaborative designs can proceed.
309	distributed	1995	Ross, S; Ramage, M; Rogers, Y	PETRA: Participatory evaluation through redesign and analysis	INTERACTING WITH COMPUTERS	Compared with single user-computer interactions, evaluating multi-user-computer interactions is much more complex. We argue for multiplicity - of theory, method and perspective - in the evaluation of computer-supported collaborative work (CSCW). This allows us to address both theoretical concerns and practical design issues, and to incorporate the expertise and experiences of both researchers and participants. We propose the PETRA framework, incorporating a theoretically-driven evaluators' perspective to investigate the collaborative activity, and a design-based, user-focused participants' perspective to evaluate the supporting tool. Our study investigated collaborative writing, both in a face-to-face context, and supported by a computer-based group editor. In our instantiation of the PETRA framework, we used distributed cognition and a form of breakdown analysis to investigate the development of shared understanding in the two different mediating settings; and devised a rapid prototyping session (inspired by participatory design) to elicit participant reactions to and redesigns of the tool interface. Our findings show that computer-supported shared understanding develops technologically, using social coordination as a repair mechanism; and that the collaborative tool must be particularly sensitive to issues of awareness, communication, focus and ownership.
310	distributed	1992	DILLENBOURG, P; SELF, JA	PEOPLE POWER - A HUMAN-COMPUTER COLLABORATIVE LEARNING-SYSTEM	LECTURE NOTES IN COMPUTER SCIENCE	This paper reports our research work in the new field of human-computer collaborative learning (HCCL). The general architecture of an HCCL is defined. An HCCL system, called People Power, has been implemented in CLOS. It contains a micro-world in which the learner can create an electoral system and simulate elections. The learner's task is to infer relations between the features of the electoral system and the distribution of seats. The human learner collaborates with a computational learner. The collaboration between learners is modelled as 'socially distributed cognition' (SDC). We view a pair of learners as a single cognitive agent whose components are distributed over two brains. This model maps inter-people and intra-people communication processes and thereby proposes an explanation of how the former generates the latter: the pattern of arguments that emerge from dialogue is reused by the artificial learner when it reasons alone. Reasoning is implemented as a dialogue with oneself. We report some results of the first experiments we have conducted.
311	distributed	2013	Markee, N; Kunitz, S	Doing Planning and Task Performance in Second Language Acquisition: An Ethnomethodological Respecification	LANGUAGE LEARNING	We use insights and methods from ethnomethodological conversation analysis and discursive psychology to develop an account of embodied word and grammar searches as socially distributed planning practices. These practices, which were produced by three intermediate learners of Italian as a Foreign Language (IFL), occurred massively in natural data that were gathered during a 3-week period from a third-semester IFL course at a university in the United States. We develop a behavioral analysis of these data that shows: (1) what participants do during planning talk and how they do such talk and (2) whether they actually do what they planned to do.
312	distributed	2013	Al-Samarraie, H; Teo, T; Abbas, M	Can structured representation enhance students' thinking skills for better understanding of E-learning content?	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	This paper proposes an e-learning model to assess the effects of online structured representation of content on learners' understanding. We designed a structured representation based on the theory of distributed cognition that provides seven segments for reading research articles. The study hypothesized that motivation, attention, and interactivity are essential factors that affect students' thinking skills for understanding e-learning content. To investigate and confirm the effect of these factors on the students' thinking skills, we designed a survey and analyzed the responses of 210 university students concerning the proposed structured representation. The results revealed that motivation, attention, and interactivity did contribute to the students' thinking skills. They also demonstrated that the structured representation helped students achieve an adequate level of thinking skills as they read research articles, which had a positive effect on their understanding. This finding demonstrates that structured representation has significant potential as a learning tool and that structure-based e-learning can influence students' metacognitive activities and facilitate their understanding. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
313	distributed	2005	Becvar, LA; Hollan, J; Hutchins, E	Hands as molecules: Representational gestures used for developing theory in a scientific laboratory	SEMIOTICA	This research examines how representational gestures (Kita 2000) made by scientists during collaborative discussions in a biochemistry lab, are used as cognitive artifacts for formulating scientific theory. By analyzing digital video of lab meetings and interviews with scientists, we find that representational gestures serve to reference and animate portions of existing material structure such as models, diagrams, and graphs. Representational gestures appear to play a significant role in how the scientific group both conceptualize and communicate theories about molecules. We believe that representational gestures operate as instantiations of essential spatiodynamic features that are not efficiently conveyed in other modalities, like language and graphical representations, and as such, are vital resources for shaping theoretical understandings in collaborative, face-to-face scientific activity. Gestures may also serve to package theoretical conceptions into semiotic entities that can be used symbolically in the 'community of practice' (Lave 1991). We use a theoretical framework provided by distributed cognition and embodied cognition to examine communal re resentational gestures as cognitive artifacts produced and modified by the biochemistry lab community during instances where theories are being negotiated.
314	distributed	2016	Fusaroli, R; Tylen, K	Investigating Conversational Dynamics: Interactive Alignment, Interpersonal Synergy, and Collective Task Performance	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This study investigates interpersonal processes underlying dialog by comparing two approaches, interactive alignment and interpersonal synergy, and assesses how they predict collective performance in a joint task. While the interactive alignment approach highlights imitative patterns between interlocutors, the synergy approach points to structural organization at the level of the interactionsuch as complementary patterns straddling speech turns and interlocutors. We develop a general, quantitative method to assess lexical, prosodic, and speech/pause patterns related to the two approaches and their impact on collective performance in a corpus of task-oriented conversations. The results show statistical presence of patterns relevant for both approaches. However, synergetic aspects of dialog provide the best statistical predictors of collective performance and adding aspects of the alignment approach does not improve the model. This suggests that structural organization at the level of the interaction plays a crucial role in task-oriented conversations, possibly constraining and integrating processes related to alignment.
315	distributed	2015	Memmert, D; Almond, L; Bunker, D; Butler, J; Fasold, F; Griffin, L; Hillmann, W; Hutermann, S; Klein-Soetebier, T; Konig, S; Nopp, S; Rathschlag, M; Schul, K; Schwab, S; Thorpe, R; Furley, P	Top 10 Research Questions Related to Teaching Games for Understanding	RESEARCH QUARTERLY FOR EXERCISE AND SPORT	In this article, we elaborate on 10 current research questions related to the teaching games for understanding (TGfU) approach with the objective of both developing the model itself and fostering game understanding, tactical decision making, and game-playing ability in invasion and net/wall games: (1) How can existing scientific approaches from different disciplines be used to enhance game play for beginners and proficient players? (2) How can state-of-the-art technology be integrated to game-play evaluations of beginners and proficient players by employing corresponding assessments? (4) How can complexity thinking be utilized to shape day-to-day physical education (PE) and coaching practices? (5) How can game making/designing be helpfully utilized for emergent learning? (6) How could purposeful game design create constraints that enable tactical understanding and skill development through adaptive learning and distributed cognition? (7) How can teacher/coach development programs benefit from game-centered approaches? (8) How can TGfU-related approaches be implemented in teacher or coach education with the goal of facilitating preservice and in-service teachers/coaches' learning to teach and thereby foster their professional development from novices to experienced practitioners? (9) Can the TGfU approach be considered a helpful model across different cultures? (10) Can physical/psychomotor, cognitive, affective/social, and cultural development be fostered via TGfU approaches? The answers to these questions are critical not only for the advancement of teaching and coaching in PE and sport-based clubs, but also for an in-depth discussion on new scientific avenues and technological tools.
316	distributed	2011	Belland, BR	Distributed Cognition as a Lens to Understand the Effects of Scaffolds: The Role of Transfer of Responsibility	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Problem solving is an important skill in the knowledge economy. Research indicates that the development of problem solving skills works better in the context of instructional approaches centered on real-world problems. But students need scaffolding to be successful in such instruction. In this paper I present a conceptual framework for understanding the effects of scaffolding. First, I discuss the ultimate goal of scaffolding-the transfer of responsibility-and one way that scholars have conceptualized promoting this outcome (fading). Next, I describe an alternative way to conceptualize transfer of responsibility through the lens of distributed cognition and discuss how this lens informs how to promote transfer of responsibility. Then I propose guidelines for the creation of problem solving scaffolds to support transfer of responsibility and discuss them in light of the literature.
317	distributed	2004	Sutton, J	Representation, levels, and context in integrational linguistics and distributed cognition	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Distributed Cognition and Integrational Linguistics have much in common. Both approaches see communicative activity and intelligent behaviour in general as strongly context-dependent and action-oriented, and brains as permeated by history. But there is some tension between the two frameworks on three important issues. The majority of theorists of distributed cognition want to maintain some notions of mental representation and computation, and to seek generalizations and patterns in the various ways in which creatures like us couple with technologies, media, and other agents; many also want to offer explanations at subpersonal levels which may undercut the autonomy of personal-level accounts. In contrast, dominant views in integrational linguistics reject all invocation of representation, resist the explanatory search for similarity across contexts and moments, and see linguistics as a lay discipline which should not offer explanations in terms alien to ordinary agents. On each of these issues, I argue that integrationists could move closer to the distributed cognition framework without losing the most important aspects of their view: integrationist criticisms of mainstream or classical theories can be respected while alliances with revised cognitivist views about representation, context, and explanation are developed. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
318	distributed	1999	Garbis, C; Waern, Y	Team coordination and communication in a rescue command staff: The role of public representations	TRAVAIL HUMAIN	In this paper we present a study conducted on a staff command training session at a Swedish national rescue training centre. We used the distributed cognition framework according to which people as well as the artefacts they use constitute a cognitive system. Our interest is directed towards the way in which individual situation models were spread and negotiated by means of communication around the artefacts. The conclusion is that a public artefact seems to be a crucial determinant in the development of a shaved situation model.
319	distributed	2014	Hutto, DD; Kirchhoff, MD; Myin, E	Extensive enactivism: why keep it all in?	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Radical enactive and embodied approaches to cognitive science oppose the received view in the sciences of the mind in denying that cognition fundamentally involves contentful mental representation. This paper argues that the fate of representationalism in cognitive science matters significantly to how best to understand the extent of cognition. It seeks to establish that any move away from representationalism toward pure, empirical functionalism fails to provide a substantive "mark of the cognitive" and is bereft of other adequate means for individuating cognitive activity. It also argues that giving proper attention to the way the folk use their psychological concepts requires questioning the legitimacy of commonsense functionalism. In place of extended functionalism empirical or commonsensical-we promote the fortunes of extensive enactivism, clarifying in which ways it is distinct from notions of extended mind and distributed cognition.
320	distributed	2014	Fusaroli, R; Gangopadhyay, N; Tylen, K	The dialogically extended mind: Language as skilful intersubjective engagement	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	A growing conceptual and empirical literature is advancing the idea that language extends our cognitive skills. One of the most influential positions holds that language - qua material symbols - facilitates individual thought processes by virtue of its material properties (Clark, 2006a). Extending upon this model, we argue that language enhances our cognitive capabilities in a much more radical way: the skilful engagement of public material symbols facilitates evolutionarily unprecedented modes of collective perception, action and reasoning (interpersonal synergies) creating dialogically extended minds. We relate our approach to other ideas about collective minds (Gallagher, 2011; Theiner, Allen, & Goldstone, 2010; Tollefsen, 2006) and review a number of empirical studies to identify the mechanisms enabling the constitution of interpersonal cognitive systems. (C) 2013 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
321	distributed	2010	Menary, R	The holy grail of cognitivism: a response to Adams and Aizawa	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Adams and Aizawa (2010b) define cognitivism as the processing of representations with underived content. In this paper, I respond to their use of this stipulative definition of cognition. I look at the plausibility of Adams and Aizawa's cognitivism, taking into account that they have no criteria for cognitive representation and no naturalistic theory of content determination. This is a glaring hole in their cognitivism-which requires both a theory of representation and underived content to be successful. I also explain why my own position, cognitive integration, is not susceptible to the supposed causal-coupling fallacy. Finally, I look at the more interesting question of whether the distinction between derived and underived content is important for cognition. Given Adams and Aizawa's concession that there is no difference in content between derived and underived representations (only a difference in how they get their content) I conclude that the distinction is not important and show that there is empirical research which does not respect the distinction.
322	distributed	2008	Smith, ER	Social relationships and groups: New insights on embodied and distributed cognition	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The field of social psychology - defined by its focus on the social aspects of human cognition and behavior - has in recent years begun to make contact with emerging perspectives in the cognitive sciences generally, especially the themes of embodiment and distributed cognition. This chapter reviews contributions of social psychology in these areas, with a particular focus on the intersection of embodied and distributed cognition. Research regarding embodiment in psychology and cognitive science has generally focused on implications of embodiment for individual-level functioning - for example, on the role of sensori-motor systems in mental representations. But embodied cues also contribute to relational functioning - linking the perceiver to other people - and thereby influence a broad array of social/relational processes, such as liking, interpersonal coordination, and prosocial behavior. In the area of distributed cognition, research in social psychology on group interaction and problem-solving, and in cognitive science on collective search tasks, is now converging on powerful and insightful descriptions of the processes that allow a group to discover good potential solutions without closing off consideration of diverse alternatives. Research in this area has only begun to incorporate the insights of the embodiment principle, which offers interesting and novel hypotheses for potential exploration. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
323	distributed	2007	Donald, M	The slow process: A hypothetical cognitive adaptation for distributed cognitive networks	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	Human cognitive evolution is characterized by two special features that are truly novel in the primate line. The first is the emergence of "mindsharing" cultures that perform cooperative cognitive work, and serve as distributed cognitive networks. The second is the emergence of a brain that is specifically adapted for functioning within those distributed networks, and cannot realize its design potential without them. This paper proposes a hypothetical neural process at the core of this brain adaptation, called the "slow process". It enables the human brain to comprehend social events of much longer duration and complexity than those that characterize primate social life. It runs in the background of human cognitive life, with the faster moving sensorimotor interface running in the foreground. Most mammals can integrate events in the shorter time zone that corresponds to working memory. However, very few can comprehend complex events that extend over several hours (for example, a game or conversation) in what may be called the "intermediate" time zone. Adult humans typically live, plan, and imagine their lives in this time range, which seems to exceed the capabilities of our closest relatives, bonobos and chimpanzees. In summary, human cognition has both an individual and a collective dimension. Individual brains and minds function within cognitive-cultural networks, or CCNs, that store and transmit knowledge. The human brain relies on cultural input even to develop the basic cognitive capacities needed to gain access to that knowledge in the first place. The postulated slow process is a top-down executive capacity that evolved specifically to manage the cultural connection, and handle the cognitive demands imposed by increasingly complex distributed systems. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
324	distributed	2006	Cowley, SJ; MacDorman, KF	What baboons, babies and Tetris players tell us about interaction: a biosocial view of norm-based social learning	CONNECTION SCIENCE	Could androids use movements to build relationships'? For people, relationships are created with the help of behaviour-shaping norms, which infants begin to discover and manipulate by the third month. To build relationships, machines can also learn to exploit human reactions in real-time decision-making. In the video game Tetris, for example, affect co-opts computer-generated patterns to simplify cognitive tasks: norms mediate what Kirsh and Maglio (Cognitive Sci., 18, pp. 513-549, 1994) term epistemic actions, which allow implicit knowledge to shape key pressing in ways that, given past games, are likely to be informative and valuable. Expert players act to change their cognitive states by allowing the game's higher-level states to constrain their lower-level actions. Since this process enables the development of expertise, we might expect it to be widespread; but it seems marginal in hamadryas baboons, although they use affect and complex norms. In humans, by contrast, infants use adults as cognitive resources in developing their epistemic abilities. This has engineering implications for android designers. Since androids can elicit epistemic actions, engineers need to develop an affect sensitive inter-face. If successful at this, even rudimentary co-action may prompt people to report experiencing androids as both making choices and violating expectations.
325	distributed	2005	Landy, D; Goldstone, RL	How we learn about things we don't already understand	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The computation-as-cognition metaphor requires that all cognitive objects are constructed from a. xed set of basic primitives; prominent models of cognition and perception try to provide that fixed set. Despite this effort, however, there are no extant computational models that can actually generate complex concepts and processes from simple and generic basic sets, and there are good reasons to wonder whether such models may be forthcoming. We suggest that one can have the benefits of computationalism without a commitment to. xed feature sets, by postulating processes that slowly develop special-purpose feature languages, from which knowledge is constructed. This provides an alternative to the fixed-model conception without radical anti-representationlism. Substantial evidence suggests that such feature development adaptation actually occurs in the perceptual learning that accompanies category learning. Given the existence of robust methods for novel feature creation, the assumption of a fixed basis set of primitives as psychologically necessary is at best premature. Methods of primitive construction include: ( a) perceptual sensitization to physical stimuli; (b) unitization and differentiation of existing (non-psychological) stimulus elements into novel psychological primitives, guided by the current set of features; and ( c) the intelligent selection of novel inputs, which in turn guides the automatic construction of new primitive concepts. Modelling the grounding of concepts as sensitivity to physical properties reframes the question of concept construction from the generation of an appropriate composition of sensations, to the tuning of detectors to appropriate circumstances.
326	distributed	2002	Friedlander, DS; Phoha, S	Semantic information fusion for coordinated signal processing in mobile sensor networks	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING APPLICATIONS	Distributed cognition of dynamic processes is commonly observed in mobile groups of animates like schools of fish, hunting lions, or in human teams for sports or military maneuvers. This paper presents methods for dynamic distributed cognition using an ad hoc mobile network of microsensors to detect, identify and track targets in noisy environments. We develop off-line algorithms for aggregating the most appropriate knowledge abstractions into semantic information, which is then used for on-line fusion of relevant attributes observed by local clusters in the sensor network. Local analysis of time series of sensor data yields aggregated semantic information, which is exchanged across nodes for higher level distributed cognition. This eliminates the need for exchanging high volumes of signal data and, thus reduces bandwidth and energy requirements for battery powered microsensors.
327	distributed	1994	CLEGG, C	PSYCHOLOGY AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - THE STUDY OF COGNITION IN ORGANIZATIONS	BRITISH JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	This paper reviews a range of psychological research into the development and use of information technology (IT) at work. The overall purpose is to use this field of inquiry to argue the need to study cognition in organizations. The paper includes reviews of the literatures on human-computer interaction, the wider organizational aspects of IT, metaphors in use within organizational psychology, empirical studies of the development and use of IT, and some emerging work on situated action and distributed cognition. The paper ends with an outline of some topics that should be included in the study of cognition in organizations, describing some ideas on the interdependencies between organizational and cognitive issues, a worldview to guide this research, and a framework based on the division of cognitive labour.
328	distributed	2015	Patel, VL; Kannampallil, TG	Cognitive informatics in biomedicine and healthcare	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Cognitive Informatics (CI) is a burgeoning interdisciplinary domain comprising of the cognitive and information sciences that focuses on human information processing, mechanisms and processes within the context of computing and computer applications. Based on a review of articles published in the Journal of Biomedical Informatics (JBI) between January 2001 and March 2014, we identified 57 articles that focused on topics related to cognitive informatics. We found that while the acceptance of Cl into the mainstream informatics research literature is relatively recent, its impact has been significant from characterizing the limits of clinician problem-solving and reasoning behavior, to describing coordination and communication patterns of distributed clinical teams, to developing sustainable and cognitively-plausible interventions for supporting clinician activities. Additionally, we found that most research contributions fell under the topics of decision-making, usability and distributed team activities with a focus on studying behavioral and cognitive aspects of clinical personnel, as they performed their activities or interacted with health information systems. We summarize our findings within the context of the current areas of CI research, future research directions and current and future challenges for CI researchers. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
329	distributed	2013	Junglas, I; Goel, L; Abraham, C; Ives, B	The Social Component of Information Systems-How Sociability Contributes to Technology Acceptance	JOURNAL OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR INFORMATION SYSTEMS	The adoption of information systems is often explained in terms of usefulness and ease of use. Lately, researchers have begun to recognize that a hedonic streak in human beings provides a further contributing factor in the adoption and acceptance of information systems. Embedded in this streak is a broader social aspect that incorporates not only the solitary, individual pleasure one gets from using the system, but also a pleasure that one gets from interacting and socializing with others through the system. This becomes particularly evident in virtual environments that support high levels of interaction with others and with artifacts embedded in an immersive context. By drawing on IS theories of technology acceptance and IS success, and on theories of social interaction from evolutionary psychology, activity theory, situated action, and distributed cognition, we test the construct of sociability and its antecedents in Second Life-a popular virtual environment. Our results support that, in addition to an information and system component, a social component contributes to IS usage.
330	distributed	2012	Pedersen, SB	Interactivity in health care: bodies, values and dynamics	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This paper discusses recent paradigm changes in linguistics as well as other scientific disciplines in order to stress how such changes affect interactional approaches to health care. It argues that moving from a reductionist to a more holistic and trans-disciplinary approach to human interactivity entails a rethinking of both theory and methodology. The paper takes a distributed approach to a single case study, a simulated emergency situation at a Danish hospital. It claims that viewing health care practice as distributed and dialogical can promote caring practices that minimise human errors and save lives. While one aim is to contribute to the understanding of expertise in action, the focus is on interactivity. and thus on how practitioners do treatment together as a joint problem solving process. The paper focuses on interactional phenomena that indicate values realisation, role hierarchies, and how affordances shape action. It concludes by suggesting how to provide opportunities for dialogical practices that realise values that are appropriate to practitioners, patients, and problem solving. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
331	distributed	2010	Gomez, ML; Schieble, M; Curwood, JS; Hassett, D	Technology, learning and instruction: distributed cognition in the secondary English classroom	LITERACY	In this paper, we analyse interactions between secondary students and pre-service teachers in an online environment in order to understand how their meaning-making processes embody distributed cognition. We begin by providing a theoretical review of the ways in which literacy learning is distributed across learners, objects, tools, symbols, technologies and the environment in modern English language arts classrooms. This is followed by a case study where we identify how programme values, textual resources and cultural schema function as distributed tools. In traditional schools, with an emphasis on taking standardised tests, the learning environment is designed on the view that learning is a transaction that happens solely 'inside the head'. Unfortunately, this pushes many students to the margins of classroom engagement and participation. By analysing students' and pre-service teachers' online discourse, we argue that virtual spaces can facilitate critical dialogue and can act as catalysts for a distributed theory of mind.
332	distributed	2009	Lucas, M; Moreira, A	Bridging Formal and Informal Learning - A Case Study on Students' Perceptions of the Use of Social Networking Tools	LEARNING IN THE SYNERGY OF MULTIPLE DISCIPLINES, PROCEEDINGS	Social networking tools have been enthusiastically heralded as a means to Support different learning types and innovative pedagogical practices. They have also been recognized as potential tools to promote informal learning. In this paper we describe work carried out using the synergy of social web tools, learning models and innovative pedagogical practices across a Masters Degree Course. Findings suggest that the use of these tools as a means to distribute an open and flexible learning environment fosters informal interactions and Such interactions are perceived by Students to have a significant impact over their formal learning outcomes.
333	distributed	2008	Fasulo, A; Zucchermaglio, C	Narratives in the workplace: Facts, fictions, and canonicity	TEXT & TALK	Drawing on a set of workplace interaction corpora, both dyadic and multiparty, we present three narrative forms departing from the established notion of storytelling. These have been called Rewindings, collaborative reconstructions of yet-unknoum past events; Fictions, the creation of imaginary scenes; and Templates, condensed versions of experience providing information on unexpected outcomes or controversial occurrences. Without denying specificity to narrative discourse, we extend its definition here to the displacement of the described actions. We propose that, similarly to what is done in other social and human sciences, conversational studies ought to take into consideration the description of events that are not fully known at the onset of narration and that are partially or entirely suggested by the narrators. The study also contributes to the field of workplace studies, providing an illustration of the functioning of distributed cognition and situated knowledge by showing how narrative is a collaborative enterprise facilitating problem solving and the dissemination of competence.
334	distributed	2002	Giordano, D	Evolution of interactive graphical representations into a design language: a distributed cognition account	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	This study investigates the evolution of the graphical representations used to specify information systems in a community of novice designers supported by a shared design memory, adopting the paradigm of distributed cognition. The nature of the relationship between design notations, quality of design and communication is explicated by considering the interplay of actors, representations, design task and an evolving social and cultural context. An account is provided of how meaningful representational features are transmitted and transformed across generations of designers, and combined in a design language that improves design quality and accommodates varied communication needs and interactional constraints. Diffusion and creation of novel representational features start from a process of critical imitation steered by criteria of instrumental utility set by the individual design teams to address both their needs, concerning level of understanding and desired expressiveness of the design, and the socially regulated expectations about what is required in a good design. These tendencies result in an organizational phenomenon according to which the language of the community evolves by incorporating more sophisticated representational modes, i.e. patterns of features that are used in a socially clever way, in particular to reduce the cognitive load involved in interpretation, and to sustain interaction with the instructor during the exam. It is argued that the cognitive fit between the general characteristics of design task and the expressive modalities allowed by the medium used for the design specifications, plus the individual differences between the novice designers are key factors in sustaining the evolution of the language. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
335	distributed	2002	Rogoff, B; Topping, K; Baker-Sennett, J; Lacasa, P	Mutual contributions of individuals, partners, and institutions: Planning to remember in girl scout cookie sales	SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT	This paper argues that planning entails distributed, mutual contributions of individuals, their social partners, and their community institutions. We suggest that these mutually involved contributions can be viewed through shifts in focus of analysis, contrasting with analyses of cognitive development that treat individuals as though they exist apart from their social and cultural worlds. We illustrate this argument with a study examining the distributed nature of planning to remember in a complex everyday task. We investigated the personal, interpersonal, and institutional cognitive contributions of 16 Girl Scouts, their mothers and customers and other companions, and institutions (the national organization and the cookie company) in keeping track of deliveries and planning collection of money in Girl Scout cookie sales and deliveries. The article also discusses an analytic methodology (Functional Pattern Analysis) for abstracting findings from the details of rich ethnographic data. Individual scouts, their mothers, customers, and the scouting organization and cookie company all played significant roles in keeping track of progress. In particular, tools and supports provided by the cookie company played a key role in organizing the cognitive tasks, and the scouts collaborated in planning with other people (usually their mothers and customers). Our findings illustrate the importance of examining contributions beyond those of the individual, while still recognizing the active roles of individuals in thinking. We argue that conceiving of individual, interpersonal, and institutional/cultural contributions as mutually constituting aspects of cognitive activities supports this aim beyond the usual focus on separate individual and 'external 'factors.
336	distributed	2001	Owen, CA	The role of organisational context in mediating workplace learning and performance	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	The success or failure of any workplace training program may not rest with the program itself, but may be influenced by a range of other contextual elements that mediate learning and action in workplace performance. This paper introduces the term "High-3" work, and then discusses the role of formal and informal learning within High-3 workplace contexts. The influence of some aspects of organisational context on work practice is illustrated through a case study and qualitative analysis of a near-miss incident within Australia's air traffic control airspace. The paper concludes that socio-cultural theories provide a useful framework for understanding performance in High-3 workplace but that these theories need to be further developed to account for a range of features present in workplace contexts. Some recommendations for practitioners interested in better understanding the role of context in developing training programs to support High-3 work are provided. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
337	distributed	1999	Benyon, D; Imaz, M	Metaphors and models: Conceptual foundations of representations in interactive systems development	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	When system developers design a computer system (or other information artifact), they must inevitably make judgments as to how to abstract the worksystem and how to represent this abstraction in their designs. In the past, such abstractions have been based either on a traditional philosophy of cognition or cognitive psychology or on intuitive, spontaneous philosophies. A number of recent developments in distributed cognition (Hutchins, 1995), activity theory (Nardi, 1996), and experientialism (Lakoff, 1987) have raised questions about the legitimacy of such philosophies. In this article, we discuss from where the abstractions come that designers employ and how such abstractions are related to the concepts that the users of these systems have. In particular, we use the theory of experientialism or experiential cognition as the foundation for our analysis. Experientialism (Lakoff, 1987) has previously only been applied to human-computer interaction (HCI) design in a quite limited way, yet it deals specifically with issues concerned with categorization and concept formation. We show how the concept of metaphor, derived from experientialism, can be used to understand the strengths and weaknesses of alternative representations in HCI design, how it can highlight changes in the paradigm underlying representations, and how it can be used to consider new approaches to HCI design. We also discuss the role that "mental spaces" have in forming new concepts and designs.
338	distributed	1998	Lebeau, RB	Cognitive tools in a clinical encounter in medicine: Supporting empathy and expertise in distributed systems	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	This paper examines how, in use, culturally-provided tools can be said to embody knowledge and distribute thinking. It focuses on the routine procedures used by medical professionals to investigate patient complaints and examines explicit and implicit contributions of these conventional procedures to distributed thinking in clinical encounters in medicine. After characterizing these tools, examples of how the tools guide and constrain medical problem solving are provided The tools support the development and exercise of the routines characteristic of medical expertise, while at the same time preserving the nonroutine, controlled deliberation necessary for sound and ethical medical care. The paper concludes with ways in which the tools' role in thinking can be promoted through medical education, particularly during students' early clinical exposure: (a) Organizing learning experiences that expose the tools' meanings; (b) exploiting the benefits of small group work to promote collaborative and individual competencies in distributed systems-and (c) explicitly utilizing the products of thinking with these tools to further the goals shared by participants in clinical encounters.
339	distributed	2014	Risko, EF; Medimorec, S; Chisholm, J; Kingstone, A	Rotating With Rotated Text: A Natural Behavior Approach to Investigating Cognitive Offloading	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Determining how we use our body to support cognition represents an important part of understanding the embodied and embedded nature of cognition. In the present investigation, we pursue this question in the context of a common perceptual task. Specifically, we report a series of experiments investigating head tilt (i.e., external normalization) as a strategy in letter naming and reading stimuli that are upright or rotated. We demonstrate that the frequency of this natural behavior is modulated by the cost of stimulus rotation on performance. In addition, we demonstrate that external normalization can benefit performance. All of the results are consistent with the notion that external normalization represents a form of cognitive offloading and that effort is an important factor in the decision to adopt an internal or external strategy.
340	distributed	2014	Stephan, A; Walter, S; Wilutzky, W	Emotions beyond brain and body	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The emerging consensus in the philosophy of cognition is that cognition is situated, i.e., dependent upon or co-constituted by the body, the environment, and/or the embodied interaction with it. But what about emotions? If the brain alone cannot do much thinking, can the brain alone do some emoting? If not, what else is needed? Do (some) emotions (sometimes) cross an individual's boundary? If so, what kinds of supra-individual systems can be bearers of affective states, and why? And does that make emotions embedded or extended in the sense cognition is said to be embedded and extended? Section 2 shows why it is important to understand in which sense body, environment, and our embodied interaction with the world contribute to our affective life. Section 3 introduces some key concepts of the debate about situated cognition. Section 4 draws attention to an important disanalogy between cognition and emotion with regard to the role of the body. Section 5 shows under which conditions a contribution by the environment results in non-trivial cases of embedded emotions. Section 6 is concerned with affective phenomena that seem to cross the organismic boundaries of an individual, in particular with the idea that emotions are extended or distributed.
341	distributed	2013	Tariq, A; Georgiou, A; Westbrook, J	Medication errors in residential aged care facilities: A distributed cognition analysis of the information exchange process	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MEDICAL INFORMATICS	Background: Medication safety is a pressing concern for residential aged care facilities (RACFs). Retrospective studies in RACF settings identify inadequate communication between RACFs, doctors, hospitals and community pharmacies as the major cause of medication errors. Existing literature offers limited insight about the gaps in the existing information exchange process that may lead to medication errors. The aim of this research was to explicate the cognitive distribution that underlies RACF medication ordering and delivery to identify gaps in medication-related information exchange which lead to medication errors in RACFs. Methods: The study was undertaken in three RACFs in Sydney, Australia. Data were generated through ethnographic field work over a period of five months (May-September 2011). Triangulated analysis of data primarily focused on examining the transformation and exchange of information between different media across the process. Results: The findings of this study highlight the extensive scope and intense nature of information exchange in RACF medication ordering and delivery. Rather than attributing error to individual care providers, the explication of distributed cognition processes enabled the identification of gaps in three information exchange dimensions which potentially contribute to the occurrence of medication errors namely: (1) design of medication charts which complicates order processing and record keeping (2) lack of coordination mechanisms between participants which results in misalignment of local practices (3) reliance on restricted communication bandwidth channels mainly telephone and fax which complicates the information processing requirements. The study demonstrates how the identification of these gaps enhances understanding of medication errors in RACFs. Conclusions: Application of the theoretical lens of distributed cognition can assist in enhancing our understanding of medication errors in RACFs through identification of gaps in information exchange. Understanding the dynamics of the cognitive process can inform the design of interventions to manage errors and improve residents' safety. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
342	distributed	2013	de Barbaro, K; Johnson, CM; Deak, GO	Twelve-Month "Social Revolution" Emerges from Mother-Infant Sensorimotor Coordination: A Longitudinal Investigation	HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	Previous accounts of the development of triadic attention identify a "curious" shift around nine to twelve months. We introduce a novel approach inspired by distributed and embodied cognition frameworks. In a longitudinal study of five mother-infant dyads, videos of home play interactions were recorded over the infants' first year. We scrutinized the real-time organization of mother-infant sensorimotor activity, including the targets of hands, gaze, and mouth, as the dyad members attended to one another and to toys. We identified a pervasive developmental pattern: At four months, infants converged all sensory modalities on objects introduced by the mother. From six to twelve months, infants showed increasing decoupling of hands and eyes and increasingly elaborate sequences in multi-object play. Concurrently, dyads engaged in increasingly elaborate social exchanges (e.g., turn-taking) as mothers adapted to infants' sensorimotor skills. We therefore theorize that triadic attention emerges not as a novel form of social cognition but as a continuous product of sensorimotor development, scaffolded by parents' expanding social actions. (c) 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel
343	distributed	2013	Heylighen, F	Self-organization in Communicating Groups: The Emergence of Coordination, Shared References and Collective Intelligence	COMPLEXITY PERSPECTIVES ON LANGUAGE, COMMUNICATION AND SOCIETY	Complex adaptive systems consist of a large number of interacting agents. Agents are goal-directed, cognitive individuals capable of perception, information processing and action. However, agents are intrinsically "bounded" in their rational understanding of the system they belong to, and its global organization tends to emerge from local interactions, resulting in a coordination of the agents and their actions. This coordination minimizes conflict or friction, while facilitating cooperation or synergy. The basic mechanism is the reinforcement of synergetic interactions and the suppression of conflictual ones. As a result, the system as a whole starts to behave like an integrated cognitive "superagent". The author presents several examples of this process of spontaneous coordination that leads to distributed cognition, including the emergence of a shared vocabulary, the development of standard referential expressions, the evolution of transmitted ideas (memes) towards more stereotypical forms, and the aggregation of diverse experiences into collective decisions, in which the system as a whole is more intelligent than its individual components. These phenomena have been investigated by means of multi-agent computer simulations and social psychological experiments.
344	distributed	2012	Andrews, C; North, C	Analyst's Workspace: An Embodied Sensemaking Environment For Large, High-Resolution Displays	2012 IEEE CONFERENCE ON VISUAL ANALYTICS SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (VAST)	Distributed cognition and embodiment provide compelling models for how humans think and interact with the environment. Our examination of the use of large, high-resolution displays from an embodied perspective has lead directly to the development of a new sensemaking environment called Analyst's Workspace (AW). AW leverages the embodied resources made more accessible through the physical nature of the display to create a spatial workspace. By combining spatial layout of documents and other artifacts with an entity-centric, explorative investigative approach, AW aims to allow the analyst to externalize elements of the sensemaking process as a part of the investigation, integrated into the visual representations of the data itself. In this paper, we describe the various capabilities of AW and discuss the key principles and concepts underlying its design, emphasizing unique design principles for designing visual analytic tools for large, high-resolution displays.
345	distributed	2010	Chang, YJ; Peng, SM; Wang, TY; Chen, SF; Chen, YR; Chen, HC	Autonomous indoor wayfinding for individuals with cognitive impairments	JOURNAL OF NEUROENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION	Background: A challenge to individuals with cognitive impairments in wayfinding is how to remain oriented, recall routines, and travel in unfamiliar areas in a way relying on limited cognitive capacity. While people without disabilities often use maps or written directions as navigation tools or for remaining oriented, this cognitively-impaired population is very sensitive to issues of abstraction (e.g. icons on maps or signage) and presents the designer with a challenge to tailor navigation information specific to each user and context. Methods: This paper describes an approach to providing distributed cognition support of travel guidance for persons with cognitive disabilities. A solution is proposed based on passive near-field RFID tags and scanning PDAs. A prototype is built and tested in field experiments with real subjects. The unique strength of the system is the ability to provide unique-to-the-user prompts that are triggered by context. The key to the approach is to spread the context awareness across the system, with the context being flagged by the RFID tags and the appropriate response being evoked by displaying the appropriate path guidance images indexed by the intersection of specific end-user and context ID embedded in RFID tags. Results: We found that passive RFIDs generally served as good context for triggering navigation prompts, although individual differences in effectiveness varied. The results of controlled experiments provided more evidence with regard to applicabilities of the proposed autonomous indoor wayfinding method. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that the ability to adapt indoor wayfinding devices for appropriate timing of directions and standing orientation will be particularly important.
346	distributed	2009	Susswein, N; Racine, TP	Wittgenstein and not-just-in-the-head cognition	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Wittgenstein's later writings criticize the idea that the mind is an intrinsically representational device. More or less clearly apprehending certain limitations of identifying all aspects of cognition with 'internal representation', certain theorists in a variety of disciplines have mostly independently reached similar conclusions, which are reflected in notions like 'distributed,' 'extended,' and situated' cognition. We explore the variety of purposes for which these terms have been introduced into psychological theorizing and relate these to Wittgenstein's philosophy of psychology. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
347	distributed	2009	Fioratou, E; Cowley, SJ	Insightful thinking Cognitive dynamics and material artifacts	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	We trace how cognition arises beyond the skin. Experimental work on insight problem solving is used to examine how external artifacts can be used to reach the goal of assembling a 'cheap necklace'. Instead of asking how insight occurs 'in the head', our participants in Experiment I can either draw solution attempts or manipulate real objects (specifically, chain links that make up a necklace). Even though performance with real chain links is significantly more successful than on paper, access to objects does not make this insight problem simple: objects themselves do not shape cognition. This challenges extended mind views. While failure often results from the inappropriate (to the current insight problem) application of hill-climbing, material artifacts can trigger solutions. In Experiment 2, we used 'open link' conditions of the concretized problem to prompt participants to act (or think). Solutions arrived via insight, serendipity, or trial-and-error. By investigating how objects are used, we show that they do more than supplement neural events. Rather, participants monitor and anticipate the effects of action (and thinking) within an organism-environment system. By analogy, language too draws on experience of monitoring real-time effects as bodily dynamics play out in a normative and cultural world. In engaging with public language, it is likely that verbal patterns function by constraining anticipatory (action-based) cognitive processes.
348	distributed	2008	Back, J; Furniss, D; Hilderbrandt, M; Blandford, A	Resilience Markers for Safer Systems and Organisations	COMPUTER SAFETY, RELIABILITY, AND SECURITY, PROCEEDINGS	If computer systems are to be designed to foster resilient performance it is important to be able to identify contributors to resilience. The emerging practice of Resilience Engineering has identified that people are still a primary source of resilience. and that the design of distributed systems should provide ways of helping people and organisations to cope with complexity. A]though resilience has been identified as a desired property, researchers and practitioners do not have a clear understanding of what manifestations of resilience look like. This paper discusses some examples of strategies that people can adopt that improve the resilience of it system. Critically, analysis reveals that the generation of these strategies is only possible if the system facilitates them. As an example. this paper discusses practices, Such its reflection, that are known to encourage resilient behavior in people. Reflection allows systems to better prepare for on coming demands. We show that contributors to the practice of reflection manifest themselves at different levels of abstraction: from individual strategies to practices in, for example, control room environments. The analysis of interaction at these levels enables resilient properties of a system to be 'seen', so that systems can be designed to explicitly support them. We then present in analysis of resilience at an organisational level within the nuclear domain. This highlights some of the challenges facing the Resilience Engineering approach and the need for using I collective language to articulate knowledge of resilient practices across domains.
349	distributed	2008	Becvar, A; Hollan, J; Hutchins, E	Representational Gestures as Cognitive Artifacts for Developing Theories in a Scientific Laboratory	RESOURCES, CO-EVOLUTION AND ARTIFACTS: THEORY IN CSCW	This research examines how representational gestures (Kita 2000), made by scientists during collaborative discussion in a biochemistry lab, are used in formulating scientific theory. By analyzing digital video of lab meetings and interviews, we find that representational gestures are frequently used to reference, modify, and embody portions of existing material structure such as models, diagrams, and graphs. Representational gestures appear to play a significant role in how scientists both conceptualize and communicate theories. We believe that representational gestures operate as instantiations of essential spatio-dynamic features that are not efficiently conveyed in other modalities, like language and graphical representations, and, as such, are essential resources for shaping theoretical understandings when used in collaborative, face-to-face activity. Gestures may also serve to align cognitive processes in a "community of practice" (Lave 1991) and can package theoretical conjectures into a single semiotic form that can be used symbolically to evoke a rich, shared conceptual history. We use a theoretical framework provided by distributed cognition and embodied cognition to examine jointly shared representational gestures as cognitive artifacts produced and modified by the biochemistry lab community during the practice of theory construction.
350	distributed	2006	Sharp, H; Robinson, H	Distributed cognition account of mature XP teams	EXTREME PROGRAMMING AND AGILE PROCESSES IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING, PROCEEDINGS	Distributed cognition is a framework for analysing collaborative work. It focuses on interactions between people, between people and their environment and between people and artefacts that are created and manipulated in the course of doing work, and it emphasises information flow and information transformation. Analyses conducted using the distributed cognition framework highlight breakdowns and potential problem areas in the collaborative work being studied; distributed cognition has been used to study a wide variety of collaborative work situations. XP teams are highly collaborative, relying heavily on interactions between team members and their environment. In this paper we present accounts of four mature XP teams based on the distributed cognition framework.
351	distributed	2004	Steinkuehler, CA	Learning in massively multiplayer online games	ICLS2004: INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES, PROCEEDINGS: EMBRACING DIVERSITY IN THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Given their increasing domination of the entertainment industry and wide spread popularity among a wide range of populations, massively multiplayer online videogames (MMOGs) are quickly becoming the form of entertainment and a major mechanism of socialization. Researchers have taken notice, and educational MMOGs are now beginning to emerge; however, there is a paucity of research on the actual culture/cognition of MMOGameplay, despite its necessity for sound theory and viable design. This paper outlines an ongoing cognitive ethnography of a currently thriving MMOG. Using discourse analytic methods, this project is developing a "thick description" (Geertz, 1973) of naturally-occurring gameplay, paying particular attention to the forms of socially and materially distributed cognition that emerge, the learning mechanisms embedded within community practice, and the ways in which participation shapes and is shaped by the situated (on- and off-screen) identities of its members. After outlining the data collection and analysis methods used, I present an illustrative analysis of selected data and preliminary findings specific to learning within this new virtual space for play.
352	distributed	2015	Heersmink, R	Dimensions of integration in embedded and extended cognitive systems	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The complementary properties and functions of cognitive artifacts and other external resources are integrated into the human cognitive system to varying degrees. The goal of this paper is to develop some of the tools to conceptualize this complementary integration between agents and artifacts. It does so by proposing a multidimensional framework, including the dimensions of information flow, reliability, durability, trust, procedural transparency, informational transparency, individualization, and transformation. The proposed dimensions are all matters of degree and jointly they constitute a multidimensional space in which situated cognitive systems can be located and have certain dimensional configurations. These dimensions provide a new perspective on the conditions for cognitive extension. They are, however, not meant to provide a set of necessary and sufficient conditions, but to provide a toolbox for investigating the degree and nature of the integration of agent and artifact into "new systemic wholes". The higher a situated system scores on the proposed dimensions, the more functional integration occurs, and the more tightly coupled the system is.
353	distributed	2015	Waterson, P; Robertson, MM; Cooke, NJ; Militello, L; Roth, E; Stanton, NA	Defining the methodological challenges and opportunities for an effective science of sociotechnical systems and safety	ERGONOMICS	An important part of the application of sociotechnical systems theory (STS) is the development of methods, tools and techniques to assess human factors and ergonomics workplace requirements. We focus in this paper on describing and evaluating current STS methods for workplace safety, as well as outlining a set of six case studies covering the application of these methods to a range of safety contexts. We also describe an evaluation of the methods in terms of ratings of their ability to address a set of theoretical and practical questions (e.g. the degree to which methods capture static/dynamic aspects of tasks and interactions between system levels). The outcomes from the evaluation highlight a set of gaps relating to the coverage and applicability of current methods for STS and safety (e.g. coverage of external influences on system functioning; method usability). The final sections of the paper describe a set of future challenges, as well as some practical suggestions for tackling these. Practitioner Summary: We provide an up-to-date review of STS methods, a set of case studies illustrating their use and an evaluation of their strengths and weaknesses. The paper concludes with a 'roadmap' for future work.
354	distributed	2013	Cash, M	Cognition without borders: "Third wave" socially distributed cognition and relational autonomy	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	I contrast somewhat individualist arguments for first-wave "extended cognition" and second-wave "integrationist cognition" with what we can identify as a third wave of arguments for "socially and culturally distributed cognition", in which individual cognition takes place within, is supported by, and is mutually co-constructed with larger social, institutional, normative, political and technological systems and cultural practices. Such accounts must respond to the objection of "cognitive bloat". When does a processes count as my cognitive process? This objection is not best rebutted, as Clark often attempts, by limiting extension to processes that play a similar role to internal brain processes. Nor is it best addressed, as Gallagher (2013) does, by appealing to enactive engagement as grounding "ownership" of a process. Rather, the solution is in our shared, evolving, normative and social practices of holding people responsible for their actions. I support this by drawing parallels between socially distributed cognition and feminist relational theory, which has already addressed the issue of individual autonomy within social practices that shape individuals' selves, values, and capacities. I end by high-lighting political and ethical concerns raised by this conception of HEC regarding differential distribution of cognitive resources. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
355	distributed	2013	Cowley, S; Nash, L	Language, interactivity and solution probing: repetition without repetition	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Recognition of the importance of autopoiesis to biological systems was crucial in building an alternative to the classic view of cognitive science. However, concepts like structural coupling and autonomy are not strong enough to throw light on language and human problem solving. The argument is presented though a case study where a person solves a problem and, in so doing relies on non-local aspects of the ecology as well as his observer's mental domain. Like Anthony Chemero we make links with ecological psychology to emphasize how embodiment draws on cultural resources as people concert thinking, action and perception. We trace this to human interactivity or sense-saturated coordination that renders possible language and human forms of cognition: it links human sense-making to historical experience. People play roles with natural and cultural artifacts as they act, animate groups and live through relationships drawing on language that is, at once, artificial and natural. Thus, while constrained by wordings, interactivity is able to fine-tune what we do with action-perception loops. Neither language nor human problem solving reduce to biological sense-making.
356	distributed	2012	Rader, ND; Zukow-Goldring, P	Caregivers' gestures direct infant attention during early word learning: the importance of dynamic synchrony	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	How do young infants discover word meanings? We have theorized that caregivers educate infants' attention (cf. Gibson, J.J., 1966) by synchronizing the saying of a word with a dynamic gesture displaying the object/referent (Zukow-Goldring, 1997). Detecting an amodal invariant across gesture and speech brackets the word and object within the auditory and visual flow of events and constitutes the basis for perceiving them as belonging together (Zukow-Goldring and Rader, 2001; cf. Spence, 2007). To test the effect of gesture on infant attention and word learning, we presented 9-14-month-old infants with videos of speakers using synchronous dynamic, static, or asynchronous dynamic gestures. We hypothesized that infants would attend more to the object at the time the word was spoken when the gesture was dynamic and synchronous with speech and that this synchrony would result in better word learning. We found that infants looked more at the object at the critical time and displayed better word learning in the dynamic synchronous condition compared with the other gesture conditions. These results highlight the key role that synchronizing word and gesture plays in infants' learning of the correspondence between word and referent. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
357	distributed	2011	Vallee-Tourangeau, F; Euden, G; Hearn, V	Einstellung defused: Interactivity and mental set	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Mental set is observed when a familiar problem-solving strategy is applied to new problems that can be solved in simpler, more efficient ways. It is most famously illustrated in the water jar problems (Luchins, 1942). In these volume measurement problems, participants learn a rule to obtain an exact volume of liquid involving a complex combination of liquid transfer. Participants persevere in using this rule for new problems that can be solved with a much simpler rule. In two experiments presented here, participants completed the water jar task either in interactive conditions with actual water jars at a sink or in noninteractive conditions, with the problems presented on paper, as in the original Luchins procedure. Interactivity significantly reduced the degree of perseverance. In addition, participants' visuospatial skills significantly predicted the rate of perseverance (and the latencies to solution) in interactive but not in noninteractive conditions. These results underscore the importance of designing problem-solving experiments that engineer distributed cognitive systems in which participants coordinate internal and external resources in thinking.
358	distributed	2010	Chiu, CH; Yang, HY; Liang, TH; Chen, HP	Elementary students' participation style in synchronous online communication and collaboration	BEHAVIOUR & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	This research investigated how differently elementary school students participate in synchronous online collaborative learning by analyzing their discussions with their partners. Two hundred and seventy-eight Taiwanese students, ranging in age from 11 to 12 years old, were involved in this study. The students were randomly arranged within-class into three-member groups. Each group used a collaborative learning system to discuss and accomplish a group assignment (creating a shared concept map). The textual discussions by each individual student were collected, categorized and accumulated. Cluster analysis was adopted to statistically classify students based on their discussion characteristics. We found that a student, while participating in online collaboration and communication, exhibited a distinct style: less contributing, coordination emphasizing, communicative, or task-oriented. In addition, students exhibiting the task-oriented pattern and students predominantly showing communicative behaviours were found to have better learning performance and retain more knowledge than students observed to be coordination emphasizing or less contributing within group collaboration.
359	distributed	2008	O'Gorman, R; Wilson, DS; Sheldon, KM	For the good of the group? Exploring group-level evolutionary adaptations using multilevel selection theory	GROUP DYNAMICS-THEORY RESEARCH AND PRACTICE	In this paper, we present an evolutionary framework, multilevel selection theory (MLS), that is highly amenable to existing social psychological theory and empiricism. MLS provides an interpretation of natural selection that shows how group-beneficial traits can evolve, a prevalent implication of social psychological data. We outline the theory and provide a number of example topics, focusing on prosociality, policing behavior, gossip, brainstorming, distributed cognition, and social identity. We also show that individual differences can produce important group-level outcomes depending on differential aggregation of individual types and relate this to the evolutionary dynamics underlying group traits. Drawing on existing work, we show how social psychologists can integrate this framework into their research program and suggest future directions for research.
360	distributed	2008	Huebner, B	Do you see what we see? An investigation of an argument against collective representation	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Collectivities (states, club, unions, teams, etc.) are often fruitfully spoken of as though they possessed representational capacities. Despite this fact, many philosophers reject the possibility that collectivities might be thought of as genuinely representational. This paper addresses the most promising objection to the possibility of collective representation, the claim that there is no explanatory value to positing collective representations above and beyond the representational states of the individuals that compose a particular collectivity. I claim that this argument either proves too much, also giving us reason to abandon person-level representations, or it proves too little, demonstrating precisely the sort of continuity between individual and collective representations that would warrant the positing of genuine collective representations. I conclude with a brief sketch of two promising cases of collective representation that lend credence to my claim that individual representations and collective representations are analogous in a way that warrants the study of collective mentality from within the cognitive sciences.
361	distributed	2007	Alterman, R	Representation, interaction, and intersubjectivity	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	What the participants share, their common "sense" of the world, creates a foundation, a framing, an orientation that enables human actors to see and act in coordination with one another. For recurrent activities, the methods the participants use to understand each other as they act change, making the intersubjective space in which actors operate richer and easier to produce. This article works through some of the issues that emerge from a close examination of intersubjectivity as it is managed through representation and interaction. The data that are presented document, in detail, a sequence of related interactions, within and across episodes of cooperation, where continuity and change can be observed. The emergence of conversational structure and coordinating representations are significant milestones in the long-term development of a representational practice that support the runtime co-construction of intersubjective space. Conversational structures emerge interactively to mediate recurrent points of coordination in the domain activity, and only secondarily the conversation itself. Coordinating representations change the representational practice of the participants by making it easier to manage their "shared view" of the collective work, enabling the participants to make progress, expand the field of the common activity, while exhibiting more control of if and when explicit grounding occurs.
362	distributed	2007	Prasad, A	The (Amorphous) anatomy of an invention: The case of magnetic resonance Imaging (MRI)	SOCIAL STUDIES OF SCIENCE	The priority dispute between Raymond Damadian and Paul Lauterbur over the 'invention' of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has attracted the attention of social and natural scientists for more than 30 years. In this paper, I have used this priority dispute to analyze the complex socio-epistemic processes through which a claim for an invention is made and strengthened. I argue that a tension exists because techno-scientific practices are embedded within a particular disciplinary regime of authorship: even though techno-scientific practices occur through distributed cognition and are contingent upon particular socio-epistemic contexts, a claim for an invention requires assigning authorship to a particular person, company, or institution in order to clearly define the origin and the novelty of that particular techno-scientific event. Nevertheless, the outcomes of socio-epistemic practices for making and strengthening priority claims are shifting, open-ended, and contingent upon particular socio-epistemic contexts.
363	distributed	2004	Magnani, L	Conjectures and manipulations. Computational modeling and the extra-theoretical dimension of scientific discovery	MINDS AND MACHINES	Computational philosophy (CP) aims at investigating many important concepts and problems of the philosophical and epistemological tradition in a new way by taking advantage of information-theoretic, cognitive, and artificial intelligence methodologies. I maintain that the results of computational philosophy meet the classical requirements of some Peircian I pragmatic ambitions'. Indeed, more than a 100 years ago, the American philosopher C.S. Peirce, when working on logical and philosophical problems, suggested the concept of pragmatism ('pragmaticism', in his own words) as a logical criterion to analyze what words and concepts express through their practical meaning. Many words have been spent on creative processes and reasoning, especially in the case of scientific practices. In fact, many philosophers have usually offered a number of ways of construing hypotheses generation, but they aim at demonstrating that the activity of generating hypotheses is paradoxical, obscure, and thus not analyzable. Those descriptions are often so far from Peircian pragmatic prescription and so abstract to result completely unknowable and obscure. To dismiss this tendency and gain interesting insight about the so-called 'logic of scientific discovery' we need to build constructive procedures, which could play a role in moving the problem-solving process forward by implementing them in some actual models. The 'computational turn' gives us a new way to understand creative processes in a strictly pragmatic sense. In fact, by exploiting artificial intelligence and cognitive science tools, computational philosophy allows us to test concepts and ideas previously conceived only in abstract terms. It is in the perspective of these actual computational models that I find the central role of abduction in the explanation of creative reasoning in science. I maintain that the computational philosophy analysis of model-based and manipulative abduction and of external and epistemic mediators is important not only to delineate the actual practice of abduction, but also to further enhance the development of programs computationally adequate in rediscovering, or discovering for the first time, for example, scientific hypotheses or mathematical theorems. The last part of the paper is devoted to illustrating the problem of the extra-theoretical dimension of reasoning and discovery from the perspective of some mathematical cases derived from calculus and geometry.
364	distributed	2003	Giere, RN	The role of computation in scientific cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper is a contribution to that part of science studies known as 'the cognitive study of science'. The general goal of such studies is to understand cognition as it occurs in modern science. Attention is restricted to higher energy physics (HEP) practiced at a research laboratory such as the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN). The dominant paradigm in cognitive science would have us understand the acquisition of know ledge regarding elementary particles in terms of a cognitive agent that performs computations on a symbolic representation. In the case of HEP, however, it is difficult to identify a cognitive agent or the required symbolic representations and algorithms. The notion of 'collective cognition' provides a step in the right direction, but does not go far enough. I argue that we need to invoke a more radical notion of 'distributed cognition' that explicitly includes artefacts. However, the inclusion of artefacts in scientific cognitive systems makes application of the cognition as computation paradigm even more problematic. I conclude that scientific cognitive systems are hybrid systems including both computational and dynamical artefacts as well as human agents. Scientific knowledge itself is best regarded as the impersonal product of a whole scientific community.
365	distributed	2015	Chandrasekharan, S; Nersessian, NJ	Building Cognition: The Construction of Computational Representations for Scientific Discovery	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Novel computational representations, such as simulation models of complex systems and video games for scientific discovery (Foldit, EteRNA etc.), are dramatically changing the way discoveries emerge in science and engineering. The cognitive roles played by such computational representations in discovery are not well understood. We present a theoretical analysis of the cognitive roles such representations play, based on an ethnographic study of the building of computational models in a systems biology laboratory. Specifically, we focus on a case of model-building by an engineer that led to a remarkable discovery in basic bioscience. Accounting for such discoveries requires a distributed cognition (DC) analysis, as DC focuses on the roles played by external representations in cognitive processes. However, DC analyses by and large have not examined scientific discovery, and they mostly focus on memory offloading, particularly how the use of existing external representations changes the nature of cognitive tasks. In contrast, we study discovery processes and argue that discoveries emerge from the processes of building the computational representation. The building process integrates manipulations in imagination and in the representation, creating a coupled cognitive system of model and modeler, where the model is incorporated into the modeler's imagination. This account extends DC significantly, and we present some of the theoretical and application implications of this extended account.
366	distributed	2015	Landsiedel, J; Gilbert, SJ	Creating external reminders for delayed intentions: Dissociable influence on "task-positive" and "task-negative" brain networks	NEUROIMAGE	Studies of prospective memory and other paradigms requiring participants to remember delayed intentions typically reveal a distinction between lateral and medial rostral prefrontal cortex, whereby the experimental condition yields increased signal in the former region and decreased signal in the latter. These regions comprise nodes of larger "task-positive" and "task-negative" networks that often show opposite patterns of signal change in response to diverse cognitive demands. However, it is not clear to what extent activity in these networks is A) inverse but equivalent, or B) functionally dissociable. In order to address this question, participants performed an "intention-offloading" task while undergoing fMRI. On each trial they remembered a delayed intention, which they had the opportunity to fulfill after a brief filled delay. In one condition they were required to set an external reminder of this intention, while in the other they acted without any external memory aid. Results indicated a clear functional dissociation between the two networks. Compared with a control task with no delayed intention, there was a highly significant reduction in task-negative deactivation when participants used an external memory aid. However, there was no reduction in task-positive activation. These results are consistent with previous evidence that medial rostral prefrontal cortex plays a prominent role in representing the content of delayed intentions, accompanied by a reduction in BOLD signal and potentially increased theta-band oscillatory activity. This role is no longer required once an external reminder has been created. By contrast, lateral rostral prefrontal cortex may play a content-free role, unaffected by the offloading of content into the external environment. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
367	distributed	2014	Furniss, D; Masci, P; Curzon, P; Mayer, A; Blandford, A	7 Themes for guiding situated ergonomic assessments of medical devices: A case study of an inpatient glucometer	APPLIED ERGONOMICS	There is relatively little guidance on the situated ergonomic assessment of medical devices, and few case studies that detail this type of evaluation. This paper reports results of a detailed case study that focuses on the design and use of a modern blood glucose meter on an oncology ward. We spent approximately 150 h in-situ, over 11 days and 4 nights, performing observations and interviews with users. This was complemented by interviews with two staff with oversight and management responsibility related to the device. We identified 19 issues with the design and use of this device. These issues were grouped into 7 themes which can help guide the situated study of medical devices: usability, knowledge gaps and mental models, workarounds, wider tasks and equipment, the patient, connection between services, and policy. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.
368	distributed	2014	Baber, C; Parekh, M; Cengiz, TG	Tool use as distributed cognition: how tools help, hinder and define manual skill	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Our thesis in this paper is that, in order to appreciate the interplay between cognitive (goal-directed) and physical performance in tool use, it is necessary to determine the role that representations play in the use of tools. We argue that rather being solely a matter of internal (mental) representation, tool use makes use of the external representations that define the human environment tool object system. This requires the notion of Distributed Cognition to encompass not simply the manner in which artifacts represent concepts but also how they represent praxis. Our argument is that this can be extended to include how artifacts-in-context afford use and how this response to affordances constitutes a particular form of skilled performance. By artifacts-in-context, we do not mean solely the affordances offered by the physical dimensions of a tool but also the interaction between the tool and the object that it is being used on. From this, "affordance" does not simply relate to the physical appearance of the tool but anticipates subsequent actions by the user directed towards the goal of changing the state of the object and this is best understood in terms of the "complimentarity" in the system. This assertion raises two challenges which are explored in this paper. The first is to distinguish "affordance" from the adaptation that one might expect to see in descriptions of motor control; when we speak of "affordance" as a form of anticipation, don't we just mean the ability to adjust movements in response to physical demands? The second is to distinguish "affordance" from a schema of the tool; when we talk about anticipation, don't we just mean the ability to call on a schema representing a "recipe" for using that tool for that task? This question of representation, specifically what knowledge needs to be represented in tool use, is central to this paper.
369	distributed	2013	Liu, YJ; Fu, QF; Liu, Y; Fu, XL	A distributed computational cognitive model for object recognition	SCIENCE CHINA-INFORMATION SCIENCES	Based on cognitive functionalities in human vision processing, we propose a computational cognitive model for object recognition with detailed algorithmic descriptions. The contribution of this paper is of two folds. Firstly, we present a systematic review on psychological and neurophysiological studies, which provide collective evidence for a distributed representation of 3D objects in the human brain. Secondly, we present a computational model which simulates the distributed mechanism of object vision pathway. Experimental results show that the presented computational cognitive model outperforms five representative 3D object recognition algorithms in computer science research.
370	distributed	2012	Duff, MC; Mutlu, B; Byom, L; Turkstra, LS	Beyond Utterances: Distributed Cognition as a Framework for Studying Discourse in Adults with Acquired Brain Injury	SEMINARS IN SPEECH AND LANGUAGE	Considerable effort has been directed at understanding the nature of the communicative deficits observed in individuals with acquired brain injuries. Yet several theoretical, methodological, and clinical challenges remain. In this article, we examine distributed cognition as a framework for understanding interaction among communication partners, interaction of communication and cognition, and interaction with the environments and contexts of everyday language use. We review the basic principles of distributed cognition and the implications for applying this approach to the study of discourse in individuals with cognitive-communication disorders. We also review a range of protocols and findings from our research that highlight how the distributed cognition approach might offer a deeper understanding of communicative mechanisms and deficits in individuals with cognitive communication impairments. The advantages and implications of distributed cognition as a framework for studying discourse in adults with acquired brain injury are discussed.
371	distributed	2012	Bietti, LM	Towards a cognitive pragmatics of collective remembering	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	This article aims to provide a cognitive and discourse based theory to collective memory research. Despite the fact that a large proportion of studies in collective memory research in social, cognitive, and discourse psychology are based on investigations of (interactional) cognitive and discourse processes, neither linguistics nor cognitive and social psychologists have proposed an integrative, interdisciplinary and discursive-based theory to memory research. I argue that processes of remembering are always embodied and action oriented reconstructions of the past, which are highly dynamic and malleable by means of communication and context. This new approach aims to provide the grounds for a new ecologically valid theory on memory studies which accounts for the mutual interdependencies between communication, cognition, meaning, and interaction, as guiding collective remembering processes in the real-world activities.
372	distributed	2011	Secchi, D	Extendable Rationality: Understanding Decision Making in Organizations	EXTENDABLE RATIONALITY: UNDERSTANDING DECISION MAKING IN ORGANIZATIONS	0
373	distributed	2011	Weller, A; Villejoubert, G; Vallee-Tourangeau, F	Interactive insight problem solving	THINKING & REASONING	Insight problem solving was investigated with the matchstick algebra problems developed by Knoblich, Ohlsson, Haider, and Rhenius (1999). These problems are false equations expressed with Roman numerals that can be made true by moving one matchstick. In a first group participants examined a static two-dimensional representation of the false algebraic expression and told the experimenter which matchstick should be moved. In a second group, participants interacted with a three-dimensional representation of the false equation. Success rates in the static group for different problem types replicated the pattern of data reported in Knoblich et al. (1999). However, participants in the interactive group were significantly more likely to achieve insight. Problem-solving success in the static group was best predicted by performance on a test of numeracy, whereas in the interactive group it was best predicted by performance on a test of visuo-spatial reasoning. Implications for process models of problem solving are discussed.
374	distributed	2010	Andersen, H	JOINT ACCEPTANCE AND SCIENTIFIC CHANGE: A CASE STUDY	EPISTEME-A JOURNAL OF INDIVIDUAL AND SOCIAL EPISTEMOLOGY	Recently, several scholars have argued that scientists can accept scientific claims in a collective process, and that the capacity of scientific groups to form joint acceptances is linked to a functional division of labor between the group members. However, these accounts reveal little about how the cognitive content of the jointly accepted claim is formed, and how group members depend on each other in this process. In this paper, I shall therefore argue that we need to link analyses of joint acceptance with analyses of distributed cognition. To sketch how this can be done, I shall present a detailed case study, and on the basis of the case, analyze the process through which a group of scientists jointly accept a new scientific claim and at a later stage jointly accept to revise previously accepted claims. I shall argue that joint acceptance in science can be established in situations where an overall conceptual structure is jointly accepted by a group of scientists while detailed parts of it are distributed among group members with different areas of expertise, a condition that I shall call a heterogeneous conceptual consensus. Finally, I shall show how a heterogeneous conceptual consensus can work as a constraint against scientific change and address the question how changes may nevertheless occur.
375	distributed	2010	Chandrasekharan, S; Osbeck, L	Rethinking Situatedness Environment Structure in the Time of the Common Code	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Common coding proposes a shared representation in the brain between perception, execution, and imagination of movement. this neural-level representation is considered to support a "direct activation" of action by perception/imagination of movement at the behavioral level. We examine how this two-tier model, where a representation at the neural level supports "direct activation" at the behavioral level, relates to the notion of situatedness-the real-time access and use of environment structure for cognition. reviewing four leading environment-oriented approaches to cognition (ecological psychology, situated action, distributed cognition, and ecological rationality), we show that the access and use of the environment structures proposed by three of these approaches require a mechanism that supports both representations and direct access. We argue that the two-tier common coding model provides such an integrated mechanism, and, further, it extends and refines the notion of direct perception.
376	distributed	2009	Kaufman, DR; Pevzner, J; Rodriguez, M; Cimino, JJ; Ebner, S; Fields, L; Moreno, V; McGuiness, C; Weinstock, RS; Shea, S; Starren, J	Understanding workflow in telehealth video visits: Observations from the IDEATel project	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Home telemedicine is an emerging healthcare paradigm that has the potential to transform the treatment of chronic illness. The purpose of this paper is to: (I) develop a theoretical and methodological framework for studying workflow in telemediated clinician-patient encounters drawing on a distributed cognition approach and (2) employ the framework in an in-depth analysis of workflow in the IDEATel project, a telemedicine program for older adults with diabetes. The methods employed in this research included (a) videotaped observations of 27 nurse-patient encounters and (b) semi-structured interviews with participants. The analyses were used to provide a descriptive analysis of video visits, understand the mediating role of different technologies and to characterize the ways in which artifacts and representations are used to understand the state of the patient. The study revealed barriers to productive use of telehealth technology as well as adaptations that circumvented such limitations. This research has design implications for: (a) improving the coordination of communication and (b) developing tools that better integrate and display information. Although home telemedicine programs will differ in important respects. there are invariant properties across such systems. Explicating these properties can serve as a needs requirement analysis to develop more effective systems and implementation plans. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
377	distributed	2009	Hollan, JD; Hutchins, EL	Opportunities and Challenges for Augmented Environments: A Distributed Cognition Perspective	DESIGNING USER FRIENDLY AUGMENTED WORK ENVIRONMENTS: FROM MEETING ROOMS TO DIGITAL COLLABORATIVE SPACES	Currently a new generation of inexpensive digital recording devices and storage facilities is revolutionizing data collection in behavioral science, extending it into situations that have not been typically accessible and enabling the examination of the fine details of action captured in meaningful settings. The ability to record and share such data has not only created a critical moment in the practice and scope of behavioral research but also presents unprecedented opportunities and challenges for the design of future augmented environments. In this chapter, we discuss these challenges and argue that fully capitalizing on the associated opportunities requires theoretical and methodological frameworks to effectively analyze data that capture the richness of real-world human activity. We sample five recent research projects from our laboratory chosen to exemplify a distributed cognition perspective and highlight opportunities and challenges relevant to the design and evaluation of augmented environments.
378	distributed	2009	Malafouris, L	"Neuroarchaeology": exploring the links between neural and cultural plasticity	CULTURAL NEUROSCIENCE: CULTURAL INFLUENCES ON BRAIN FUNCTION	This paper aims primarily at two things: The first is to present an overview of the newly developed field of "neuroarchaeology" and discuss its theoretical grounding in Material Engagement Theory (MET) and the extended mind hypothesis. The second is to use the above overview as a basis for advancing some tentative proposals about the role that neuroarchaeology, by placing the mutual constitution of brain, mind, and culture in evolutionary perspective, can play within the field of cultural neuroscience and about the common benefits that can arise out of such a cross-disciplinary coalition.
379	distributed	2008	Morrow, D; Raquel, L; Schriver, A; Redenbo, S; Rozovski, D; Weiss, G	External support for collaborative problem solving in a simulated provider/patient medication scheduling task	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-APPLIED	Taking medication requires developing plans to accomplish the activity. This planning challenges older adults because of age-related cognitive limits and inadequate collaboration with health providers. The authors investigated whether an external aid (medtable) supports collaborative planning in the context of a simulated patient/provider task in which pairs of older adults worked together to create medication schedules. Experiment I compared pairs who used the medtable, blank paper (unstructured aid), or no aid to create schedules varying in complexity of medication constraints (number of medications and medication co-occurrence restrictions) and patient constraints (available times during the day to take medication). Both aids increased problem-solving accuracy and efficiency (time per unit accuracy) compared to the no-aid condition, primarily for more complex schedules. However, benefits were similar for the two aids. In Experiment 2, a redesigned medtable increased problem-solving accuracy and efficiency compared to blank paper. Both aids presumably supported problem solving by providing a jointly visible workspace for developing schedules. The medtable may be more effective because it externalizes constraints (relationships between medication and patient information), so that participants can more easily organize information.
380	distributed	2007	Toups, ZO; Kerne, A	Implicit Coordination in Firefighting Practice: Design Implications for Teaching Fire Emergency Responders	CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1 AND 2	Fire emergency response requires rapidly processing and communicating information to coordinate teams that protect lives and property. Students studying to become fire emergency responders must learn to communicate, process, and integrate information during dangerous, stressful, and time-sensitive work. We are performing an ethnographic investigation that includes interviews with experienced fire emergency responders and observations of team burn training exercises with students. We distill salient components of firefighting practice, which are relevant to the design of fire emergency response education systems. We derive design implications for systems that teach fire emergency responders to deal with issues surrounding the communication and integration of fireground information: the mixing of communication modalities, the distribution of information acquisition sources to create information differential and uncertainty, and audible clues.
381	distributed	2004	Henning, E; Van der Westhuizen, D	Crossing the digital divide safely and trustingly: how ecologies of learning scaffold the journey	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	The article addresses the issue of learning to elearn in borderless programs in a globallsed learning landscape and the associated problems of scaffolding the journey across the digital divide. The authors argue that the assumption underlying such courses is that cross-cultural programs are viable because they are conceived and designed to be 'global', and that they assume this design to be inclusive. Henning and Van der Westhuizen claim that the global discourse in most domains can take only marginal note of the need to infuse such programs with a local serniotic-a course design criterion for which they argue. They furthermore forward the notion that the majority of the world's prospective elearners need various bridging mechanisms in order to be able to access the broader discourse and that one of these mechanisms can be explored through the metaphor of "information ecologies" as proposed by Nardi and O'Day [Nardi, B.A., & O'Day, V.L. (1999). Information ecologies. Using technology with heart. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press]. They also conclude that issues of the learners' trust in the course and its system need to be considered when contemplating programs for diverse target groups. By way of a case study, consisting of three portraitures of adult learners, they explore the limitations of assumed distributed cognition and claim that learning is, in reality, contained/constrained in the familiar local narrative of the novice adult elearners in a rural South African context. The case study illustrates how the resistance to technology and its power base becomes an obstacle for the students and how the support of peers becomes the main scaffolding mechanism for their entry into electronic learning environments. The findings thus show how the social context becomes the facilitator and the scaffold for elearning, more than technology and the curriculum itself. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
382	distributed	2004	Hoc, JM; Mebarki, N; Cegarra, J	Human operator support of scheduling in manufacturing workshops	TRAVAIL HUMAIN	This paper presents three scheduling situations from a technical point of view. First, static scheduling is considered as the design of a schedule before its execution. Second, dynamic scheduling considers the elements of the problem in real time, as they are known. Third, reactive scheduling consists of modifying a schedule on the basis of unexpected events. A number of questions arise from these situations; for humans in the main, but also for machines. How do humans reduce complexity ? How do they manage uncertainty ? What is the nature of human expertise ? What is the human role in the scheduling process ? What degree of confidence should the human have in the machine's model of the problem ? Is the human able to improve on the solution provided by the machine ? What kind of diagnosis is necessary when deciding and implementing a modification in a schedule ? The paper then looks for responses to these questions in the literature. The state-of-the-art work on human factors in scheduling, published by P. Sanderson in 1989, is considered. Three main contributions to research were current at this time. First, a comparison between human strategies and simple scheduling rules showed the frequent superiority of the former over the latter. Second, hybrid systems (human-machine cooperation) were designed and evaluated as being better than humans or machines alone. Third, human-computer interfaces were evaluated, integrating prediction and graphical features. A limitation of these studies was their poor ecological validity, as they were restricted to laboratory settings. The paper then describes the progress made to the revival of these approaches. Through individual protocol analysis, a more precise access to human strategies was possible. Formal approaches were enriched with contributions from distributed cognition. Some progress has also been made in the analysis of human-computer interfaces developed within the context of ecological interfaces. Finally, a cooperative conception of the human-machine relationship has grown within this domain, as well as a desire to support human machine cooperation in distributed scheduling. The paper concludes with some promising research directions that could result in a better understanding of human strategies and representations, the design of more efficient human-machine interfaces and cooperation, and a greater consideration of dynamic and reactive scheduling.
383	distributed	2003	Deek, FP; Tommarello, JD; McHugh, JA	A model for collaborative technologies in manufacturing	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF COMPUTER INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING	Groupware or collaborative systems allow a team to interact in a shared workspace despite geographical separation or diverse schedules. Current collaborative integrated manufacturing systems tend to focus on the design stage of the development process. However, design is only one stage of standard frameworks for problem-solving-based development, which typically include a more comprehensive set of stages from problem formulation, planning and design to testing and deployment. Problem solving methodologies and tools, originally developed for single-user environments, can be extended to multi-user collaborative problem solving models and systems. This paper considers the characteristics of existing collaborative systems in manufacturing and then proposes a methodology-based, object-oriented view of the structure of such systems, which also addresses such factors as the effect of distributed cognition and social protocols. We then show that existing research on both individual and collaborative problem solving models pertinent to groupware systems theory, as well as work on the effect of factors such as group cognition, group psychology, sociology and team dynamics, support this approach to the design of collaborative manufacturing environments.
384	distributed	2015	Risko, EF; Dunn, TL	Storing information in-the-world: Metacognition and cognitive offloading in a short-term memory task	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	We often store to-be-remembered information externally (e.g., written down on a piece of paper) rather than internally. In the present investigation, we examine factors that influence the decision to store information in-the-world versus in-the-head using a variant of a traditional short term memory task. In Experiments 1 a and lb participants were presented with to-be-remembered items and either had to rely solely on internal memory or had the option to write down the presented information. In Experiments 2a and 2b participants were presented with the same stimuli but made metacognitive judgments about their predicted performance and effort expenditure. The spontaneous use of external storage was related both to the number of items to be remembered and an individual's actual and perceived short-term-memory capacity. Interestingly, individuals often used external storage despite its use affording no observable benefit. Implications for understanding how individuals integrate external resources in pursuing cognitive goals are discussed. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
385	distributed	2015	Gilbert, SJ	Strategic use of reminders: Influence of both domain-general and task-specific metacognitive confidence, independent of objective memory ability	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	How do we decide whether to use external artifacts and reminders to remember delayed intentions, versus relying on unaided memory? Experiment 1 (N = 400) showed that participants' choice to forgo reminders in an experimental task was independently predicted by subjective confidence and objective ability, even when the two measures were themselves uncorrelated. Use of reminders improved performance, explaining significant variance in intention fulfilment even after controlling for unaided ability. Experiment 2 (N = 303) additionally investigated a pair of unrelated perceptual discrimination tasks, where the confidence and sensitivity of metacognitive judgments was decorrelated from objective performance using a staircase procedure. Participants with lower confidence in their perceptual judgments set more reminders in the delayed-intention task, even though confidence was unrelated to objective accuracy. However, memory confidence was a better predictor of reminder setting. Thus, propensity to set reminders was independently influenced by (a) domain-general metacognitive confidence; (b) task-specific confidence; and (c) objective ability. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
386	distributed	2014	Salmon, PM; Lenne, MG; Walker, GH; Stanton, NA; Filtness, A	Using the Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) to explore conflicts between different road user groups when making right hand turns at urban intersections	ERGONOMICS	Collisions between different types of road users at intersections form a substantial component of the road toll. This paper presents an analysis of driver, cyclist, motorcyclist and pedestrian behaviour at intersections that involved the application of an integrated suite of ergonomics methods, the Event Analysis of Systemic Teamwork (EAST) framework, to on-road study data. EAST was used to analyse behaviour at three intersections using data derived from an on-road study of driver, cyclist, motorcyclist and pedestrian behaviour. The analysis shows the differences in behaviour and cognition across the different road user groups and pinpoints instances where this may be creating conflicts between different road users. The role of intersection design in creating these differences in behaviour and resulting conflicts is discussed. It is concluded that currently intersections are not designed in a way that supports behaviour across the four forms of road user studied. Interventions designed to improve intersection safety are discussed. Practitioner Summary: Intersection safety currently represents a key road safety issue worldwide. This paper presents a novel application of a framework of ergonomics methods for studying differences in road user behaviour at intersections. The findings support development of interventions that consider all road users as opposed to one group in isolation.
387	distributed	2014	Vincent, CJ; Blandford, A	The challenges of delivering validated personas for medical equipment design	APPLIED ERGONOMICS	Representations of archetypal users (personas) have been advocated as a way to avoid designing in isolation. They allow communication of user needs and orient teams towards user experience. One of the challenges for developers of interactive medical devices is that most devices are used by a wide variety of people, and that developers have limited access to those people; personas have the potential to make developers more aware of who they are designing for. But this raises the question of whether it is possible to deliver useful, valid personas of interactive medical device users. The aim of this research was to develop and test a rigorous, empirically grounded process of constructing personas, with the objective of reflecting on that process. Many challenges were encountered: we found that directly linking the personas to a user population was not possible and although personas were a useful tool for supporting communication and elicitation across disciplines, it was hard to make them representative when picking details that were relevant and checking accuracy. Checking the content resulted in disparate, possibly incommensurable, views. Despite this, the personas proved useful in supporting the transfer of knowledge across professional perspectives. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd and The Ergonomics Society. All rights reserved.
388	distributed	2013	Vallee-Tourangeau, F	Interactivity, Efficiency, and Individual Differences in Mental Arithmetic	EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Thinking efficiency was examined in mental arithmetic as a function of the degree of interactivity afforded by the task. Participants carried out single-digit additions, involving either 7 or 11 numbers, as fast and as accurately as possible. They completed the sums in blocks, five from the short 7-number set first, and five from the longer 11-number set second. These sets were interpolated among a series of other tasks that measured numeracy and arithmetic skills, working memory capacity, visuo-spatial processing speed, and attention switching, in such a way as to permit the presentation of the sets twice, once with each of the sums presented on a piece of paper and participants placing their hands flat on the table and once with the sums presented as a set of manipulable tokens. Efficiency was measured as the ratio of performance over time invested. A significant interaction between condition and set size was observed: Efficiency was slightly better in the static condition for short sums but declined substantially relative to the interactive condition for long sums. Twenty-two percent of the variance in efficiency for hard sums in the static condition was explained by arithmetic skills and working memory capacity, whereas 45% of this variance was explained by arithmetic skills, working memory capacity, and attention switching skills in the interactive condition. A separate sample of 17 participants who provided concurrent verbal protocols as they solved the problems revealed that paths to solution and arithmetic strategies were substantially transformed by the opportunity to manipulate tokens.
389	distributed	2011	Kravchenko, A	How Humberto Maturana's Biology of Cognition Can Revive the Language Sciences	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Purpose This paper demonstrates the conceptual relevance of Maturana's biology of cognition for the theoretical foundations of the language sciences. Approach Stuck in rationalizing, rather than naturalizing, language, modern orthodox linguistics is incapable of offering a comprehensible account of language as a species-specific, biologically grounded human feature. This predicament can be overcome by using Maturana's theory to stress that lived experience gives language an epistemological "lining." Findings The key concepts of Maturana's biology of cognition provide a more coherent theoretical framework for the study of language that can give new life to the language sciences by stressing languaging and the importance of connotation. Conclusion Maturana's concept of "languaging" allows the language sciences to depart from the view of language as a system of symbols. Instead, focus should be placed on how the relational dynamics of linguistic interactions trigger changes in the dynamics of the nervous system and the organism as a whole, and how their reciprocal causality is distinguished and described by the languaging observer in terms of mind, intelligence, reason, and self-consciousness.
390	distributed	2011	Rayner, S	Researching style: Epistemology, paradigm shifts and research interest groups	LEARNING AND INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES	This paper identifies the need for a deliberate approach to theory building in the context of researching cognitive and learning style differences in human performance. A case for paradigm shift and a focus upon research epistemology is presented, building upon a recent critique of style research. A proposal for creating paradigm shift is made, utilising theories of distributed cognition and the frameworking of a model for pragmatic research methodology. The proposition entails setting up a series of Research Interest Groups (RIGS) to operate within and beyond the European Learning Styles Information Network (ELSIN). The approach is aimed at realising further integration and application of theories of knowledge management, educational and organisational psychology in a pragmatic research methodology for use in style research. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
391	distributed	2008	Morgan, M; Brickell, G; Harper, B	Applying distributed cognition theory to the redesign of the 'Copy and Paste' function in order to promote appropriate learning outcomes	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	This paper explores the application of distributed cognition theory to educational contexts by examining a common learning interaction, the `Copy and Paste' function. After a discussion of distributed cognition and the role of mediating artefacts in real world cognitions, the `Copy and Paste' function is redesigned to embed an effective interaction strategy, based on encoding strategies, into the interface. The current affordances of the `Copy and Paste' interaction derived from its business heritage (speed and accuracy of reproduction) are contrasted with those needed for a learning interaction (the meaningful processing of content for understanding). An empirical study was conducted to test the efficacy of the redesigned function through an experimental treatment. The study examined the impact of an experimental treatment based on changes to the `Copy and Paste' function in terms of: (a) changes to interaction strategies employed by learners; (b) changes in learner familiarity with note taking and summarisation interaction strategies; (c) changes to the features of the text produced by learners. The experimental task consisted of participants completing three short written assessment tasks based on multiple text resources using either: (i) Control treatment: standard notepad tools supplemented by a text-based resource outlining notetaking and summarisation strategies; or (ii) Experimental treatment: the modified notepad. The results of the study showed that participants in the experimental group spent significantly more time engaged in activities that indicated higher levels of cognitive processing and produced notes that contained text features that also indicated significantly higher levels of cognitive processing. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
392	distributed	2007	Butler, KA; Zhang, JJ; Esposito, C; Bahrami, A; Hebron, R; Kieras, D	Work-Centered Design: A Case Study of a Mixed-Initiative Scheduler	CONFERENCE ON HUMAN FACTORS IN COMPUTING SYSTEMS, VOLS 1 AND 2	We present the case study of a complex, mixed-initiative scheduling system to illustrate Work-Centered Design (WCD), a new approach for the design of information systems. WCD is based on theory of distributed cognition and extends established user-centered methods with abstract task modeling, using innovative techniques for work ontology and top-level algorithms to capture the logic of a human-computer interaction paradigm. WCD addresses a long-standing need for more effective methods of function allocation. The illustrating case study succeeded on a large, difficult problem for aircraft scheduling where prior expensive attempts failed. The new system, called Solver, reduces scheduling labor from 9 person-days a week to about I person-hour. These results were obtained from the first user test, demonstrating notable effectiveness of WCD. Further, the value of Solver's higher quality schedules is far-reaching. WCD extends HCI methods to fill an important need for technical problem-solving systems.
393	distributed	2007	MacDorman, KF	Life after the symbol system metaphor	INTERACTION STUDIES	After reviewing the papers in this special issue, I must conclude that brains are not syntactic engines, but control systems that orient to biological, interindividual, and cultural norms. By themselves, syntactic constraints both underdetermine and overdetermine cognitive operations. So, rather than serving as the basis for general cognition, they are just another kind of empirically acquired constraint. In humans, symbols emerge from a particular sensorimotor activity through a process of contextual broadening that depends on the coordination of conscious and nonconscious processing. This process provides the representational freedom and stability that constitute the human brain's solution to the frame problem and symbol grounding problem. Symbol formation and grounding is an ongoing process of generalising constraints from particular contexts, selectively enlisting their use, and re-automating them. This process is central to the self-creation of a language-using person with beliefs, agency, and identity.
394	distributed	2006	Cowley, SJ	Language and biosemiosis: Towards unity?	SEMIOTICA	The paper reviews and extends the debate at the core of Language and Interaction. Having endorsed John Gumperz's descriptions of contextualization, I consider how this is theorized. With his critics, I find the compelling accounts to be linked with inadequate explanation of events. Mistakenly, Gumperz invokes 'cues' or physical invariants. In fact, as Thibault suggests, the indexicality of talk is grounded in material practice. The incompatibility of description and explanation takes us to the limits of analysis. Rejecting appeal to 'meaning potential,' therefore, I turn to cognitive science. Stressing that much cognition is occurs beyond skin and skull, I posit that contextualization arises from interpersonal dynamics. Viewing it as unintended meaning that occurs between acting subjects, I endorse Sebeok's view that communication extends the sensorium. On this distributed view, I sketch a theory based on three main sources. By stressing interpersonal dynamics, I link Kirsh and Maglio's work on epistemic action, Damasio's theory of core-consciousness, and Barbieri's model of biosemiosis. This enables me to leave Gumperz's description intact by focusing - not on cues - but a subject's life history. During talk, we integrate vocal and visible dynamics with judgments arising from how experience impacts on our updating feeling-of-what-happens.
395	distributed	2005	Hedestig, U; Kaptelinin, V	Facilitator's roles in a videoconference learning environment	INFORMATION SYSTEMS FRONTIERS	The paper reports a study of a videoconference-based environment in decentralized university education and factors contributing to the success of teaching and learning in the environment. The focus of the paper is on the role of a person having the formal responsibilities of a technician. An ethnographic study conducted over the course of a year revealed that the contribution of this person far exceeded the scope of formal responsibilities. The person, who was acting in the setting as a facilitator, was found to possess expertise, which was critically important for supporting interaction between remote participants at several levels, such as attention management, time management, acquisition of setting-specific skills, and coordination within a larger institutional context. The findings suggest that "supra-situational" activities can be important factors for the successful functioning and development of emerging learning environments.
396	distributed	1995	DOWELL, J	COORDINATION IN EMERGENCY OPERATIONS AND THE TABLETOP TRAINING EXERCISE	TRAVAIL HUMAIN	Emergency relief operations following catastrophic accidents and natural disasters can only be effective if they are well coordinated. This paper first identifies the cognitive issues of coordination at the heart of emergency operations and illustrates the issues through an examination of the Clapham railway accident. The official enquiry following that particular accident recommended the use of tabletop exercises for training the emergency agencies. Today, tabletop training is widely practised in the UK and this paper presents an account of one such exercise observed by the author. The tabletop exercise used the scenario of a fictitious railway accident to train personnel from a number of emergency agencies and the general potential of tabletop exercises for training coordination is examined. The paper has implications for the development of training practices and technologies for emergency agencies and for other organisations where coordination is critical for effectiveness.
397	distributed	2015	Gilbert, SJ	Strategic offloading of delayed intentions into the external environment	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	In everyday life, we often use external artefacts such as diaries to help us remember intended behaviours. In addition, we commonly manipulate our environment, for example by placing reminders in noticeable places. Yet strategic offloading of intentions to the external environment is not typically permitted in laboratory tasks examining memory for delayed intentions. What factors influence our use of such strategies, and what behavioural consequences do they have? This article describes four online experiments (N = 1196) examining a novel web-based task in which participants hold intentions for brief periods, with the option to strategically externalize these intentions by creating a reminder. This task significantly predicted participants' fulfilment of a naturalistic intention embedded within their everyday activities up to one week later (with greater predictive ability than more traditional prospective memory tasks, albeit with weak effect size). Setting external reminders improved performance, and it was more prevalent in older adults. Furthermore, participants set reminders adaptively, based on (a) memory load, and (b) the likelihood of distraction. These results suggest the importance of metacognitive processes in triggering intention offloading, which can increase the probability that intentions are eventually fulfilled.
398	distributed	2015	Furniss, D; Masci, P; Curzon, P; Mayer, A; Blandford, A	Exploring medical device design and use through layers of Distributed Cognition: How a glucometer is coupled with its context	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Medical devices are becoming more interconnected and complex, and are increasingly supported by fragmented organizational systems, e.g. through different processes, committees, supporting staff and training regimes. Distributed Cognition has been proposed as a framework for understanding the design and use of medical devices. However, it is not clear that it has the analytic apparatus to support the investigation of such complexities. This paper proposes a framework that introduces concentric layers to DiCoT, a method that facilitates the application of Distributed Cognition theory. We use this to explore how an inpatient blood glucose meter is coupled with its context. The analysis is based on an observational study of clinicians using a newly introduced glucometer on an oncology ward over approximately 150 h (11 days and 4 nights). Using the framework we describe the basic mechanics of the system, incremental design considerations, and larger design considerations. The DiCoT concentric layers (DiCoT-CL) framework shows promise for analyzing the design and use of medical devices, and how they are coupled with their context. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
399	distributed	2014	Wagoner, B; Gillespie, A	Sociocultural mediators of remembering: An extension of Bartlett's method of repeated reproduction	BRITISH JOURNAL OF SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	The reported research uses an extension of Bartlett's method of repeated reproduction to provide data on the sociocultural processes underlying reconstructive remembering. Twenty participants worked in pairs to remember the War of the Ghosts story 15min and 1week after presentation. The observed transformations were comparable to previous research with individuals. Going beyond previous research, we analyse participants' discourse to provide a window on the processes underlying these transformations. Textual excerpts demonstrate how imagery, narrative coherence, deduction, repetition, gesture, questioning and deferring contribute to the transformation and conventionalization of the material. These diverse sociocultural mediators are integrated into a partially coherent recollection by participants self-reflecting, or as Bartlett termed it, turning around upon their schemas. We demonstrate that this self-reflection is both a social and a psychological process, occurring because participants are responding to their own utterances in the same way that they respond to the utterances of other people. These empirical findings are used to make a case for using discursive data to look not only at discursive processes but also at socially situated and scaffolded psychological processes.
400	distributed	2014	Green, A	Evaluating distributed cognition	SYNTHESE	Human beings are promiscuously social creatures, and contemporary epistemologists are increasingly becoming aware that this shapes the ways in which humans process information. This awareness has tended to restrict itself, however, to testimony amongst isolated dyads. As scientific practice ably illustrates, information-processing can be spread over a vast social network. In this essay, a credit theory of knowledge is adapted to account for the normative features of strongly distributed cognition. A typical credit theory analyzes knowledge as an instance of obtaining success because of or through the ability of the individual knower. The extended credit theory developed here broadens this framework so as to accommodate team-like epistemic achievements. The extended credit theory is then contrasted with some similar proposals given from within a process reliabilist framework. Once one isolates pairs of cases of distributed cognition in which there is a difference between sheer reliability and reliability grounded in ability, one can see that the extended credit theory maps the normative terrain better than the alternatives.
401	dynamical	1998	Mandelblit, N; Zachar, O	The notion of dynamic unit: Conceptual developments in cognitive science	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We suggest ct common ground for alternative proposals in different domains of cognitive science which have previously seemed to have little in common. the underlying common theme is associated with a redefinition of the basic unit of analysis in each domain of thought. Our framework suggests ct definition of unity which is based not on inherent properties of the elements constituting the unit, but rather on dynamic patterns of correlation across the elements. We introduce a set of features that characterize the new dynamic units, and distinguish them from traditional units of analysis. A conceptual connection is made with the identification of elementary units in modern physics theories, as well as with concepts and structures in the study of complex dynamical systems and connectionism. The paper analyses the evolution of the concept of unit in different domains of thought in cognitive science, and examines the proposed framework of "dynamic unity" with regard to various theoretical problems within each domain. The particular cognitive science issues discussed in the paper include: (1) the binding problem in the brain; (2) the mental unit of conceptual organization; (3) defining 'wordhood' in linguistics; and (4) identifying the unit of cognition in the natural environment.
402	dynamical	2012	Lipinski, J; Schneegans, S; Sandamirskaya, Y; Spencer, JP; Schoner, G	A Neurobehavioral Model of Flexible Spatial Language Behaviors	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	We propose a neural dynamic model that specifies how low-level visual processes can be integrated with higher level cognition to achieve flexible spatial language behaviors. This model uses real-word visual input that is linked to relational spatial descriptions through a neural mechanism for reference frame transformations. We demonstrate that the system can extract spatial relations from visual scenes, select items based on relational spatial descriptions, and perform reference object selection in a single unified architecture. We further show that the performance of the system is consistent with behavioral data in humans by simulating results from 2 independent empirical studies, I spatial term rating task and 1 study of reference object selection behavior. The architecture we present thereby achieves a high degree of task flexibility under realistic stimulus conditions. At the same time, it also provides a detailed neural grounding for complex behavioral and cognitive processes.
403	dynamical	2010	van der Velde, F; de Kamps, M	Learning of control in a neural architecture of grounded language processing	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Human cognition is characterized by three important features: productivity, dynamics and grounding. These features can be integrated in a neural architecture of language processing. The representations in this architecture always remain "in situ", because they are grounded in perception, action, emotion, associations and (semantic) relations. The neural architecture shows how these representations can be combined in a productive manner, and how dynamics influences this process. The constraints that each of these features impose on each other result in an architecture in which local and global aspects interact in processing and learning. The architecture consists of neural "binding" mechanisms that produce (novel) sentence structures on the fly. Here, we discuss how the control of this binding process can be learned. We trained a feedforward network (FFN) for this task. The results show that information from the architecture is needed as input to learn control of binding. Thus, the control system is recurrent. We show that this recurrent system can learn control of binding for basic (but recursive) sentence structures. After learning, the binding process behaves well on a series of test sentences, including sentences with (unlimited) embeddings. However, for some of these sentences, difficulties arise due to dynamical binding conflicts in the architecture. We also discuss and illustrate the potential influence that the dynamics in the architecture could have on the binding process. (C) 2008 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
404	dynamical	2008	Montebelli, A; Herrera, C; Ziemke, T	On cognition as dynamical coupling: an analysis of behavioral attractor dynamics	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	The interaction of brain, body, and environment can result in complex behavior with rich dynamics, even for relatively simple agents. Such dynamics are, however, often difficult to analyze. In this article, we explore the case of a simple simulated robotic agent, equipped with a reactive neurocontroller and an energy level, which the agent has been evolved to recharge. A dynamical systems analysis shows that a non-neural internal state (energy level), despite its simplicity, dynamically modulates the behavioral attractors of the agent-environment system, such that the robot's behavioral repertoire is continually adapted to its current situation and energy level. What emerges is a dynamic, non-deterministic, and highly self-organized action selection mechanism, originating from the dynamical coupling of four systems (non-neural internal states, neurocontroller, body, and environment) operating at very different timescales.
405	dynamical	1998	Mitchell, M	A complex-systems perspective on the "computation vs. dynamics" debate in cognitive science	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTIETH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	I review the purported opposition between computational and dynamical approaches in cognitive science. I argue that both computational and dynamical notions will be necessary for a full explanatory account of cognition, and give a perspective on how recent research in complex systems can lead to a much needed rapprochement between computational and dynamical styles of explanation.
406	dynamical	2012	Froese, T; Lenay, C; Ikegami, T	Imitation by social interaction? Analysis of a minimal agent-based model of the correspondence problem	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	One of the major challenges faced by explanations of imitation is the "correspondence problem": how is an agent able to match its bodily expression to the observed bodily expression of another agent, especially when there is no possibility of external self-observation? Current theories only consider the possibility of an innate or acquired matching mechanism belonging to an isolated individual. In this paper we evaluate an alternative that situates the explanation of imitation in the inter-individual dynamics of the interaction process itself. We implemented a minimal model of two interacting agents based on a recent psychological study of imitative behavior during minimalist perceptual crossing. The agents cannot sense the configuration of their own body, and do not have access to other's body configuration, either. And yet surprisingly they are still capable of converging on matching bodily configurations. Analysis revealed that the agents solved this version of the correspondence problem in terms of collective properties of the interaction process. Contrary to the assumption that such properties merely serve as external input or scaffolding for individual mechanisms, it was found that the behavioral dynamics were distributed across the model as a whole.
407	dynamical	2009	Mirolli, M; Parisi, D	Language as a Cognitive Tool	MINDS AND MACHINES	The standard view of classical cognitive science stated that cognition consists in the manipulation of language-like structures according to formal rules. Since cognition is 'linguistic' in itself, according to this view language is just a complex communication system and does not influence cognitive processes in any substantial way. This view has been criticized from several perspectives and a new framework (Embodied Cognition) has emerged that considers cognitive processes as non-symbolic and heavily dependent on the dynamical interactions between the cognitive system and its environment. But notwithstanding the successes of the embodied cognitive science in explaining low-level cognitive behaviors, it is still not clear whether and how it can scale up for explaining high-level cognition. In this paper we argue that this can be done by considering the role of language as a cognitive tool: i.e. how language transforms basic cognitive functions in the high-level functions that are characteristic of human cognition. In order to do that, we review some computational models that substantiate this view with respect to categorization and memory. Since these models are based on a very rudimentary form of non-syntactic 'language' we argue that the use of language as a cognitive tool might have been an early discovery in hominid evolution, and might have played a substantial role in the evolution of language itself.
408	dynamical	2016	Kida, T; Tanaka, E; Kakigi, R	Multi-Dimensional Dynamics of Human Electromagnetic Brain Activity	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) are invaluable neuroscientific tools for unveiling human neural dynamics in three dimensions (space, time, and frequency), which are associated with a wide variety of perceptions, cognition, and actions. MEG/EEG also provides different categories of neuronal indices including activity magnitude, connectivity, and network properties along the three dimensions. In the last 20 years, interest has increased in inter-regional connectivity and complex network properties assessed by various sophisticated scientific analyses. We herein review the definition, computation, short history, and pros and cons of connectivity and complex network (graph-theory) analyses applied to MEG/EEG signals. We briefly describe recent developments in source reconstruction algorithms essential for source-space connectivity and network analyses. Furthermore, we discuss a relatively novel approach used in MEG/EEG studies to examine the complex dynamics represented by human brain activity. The correct and effective use of these neuronal metrics provides a new insight into the multi dimensional dynamics of the neural representations of various functions in the complex human brain.
409	dynamical	2014	Di Paolo, EA; Barandiaran, XE; Beaton, M; Buhrmann, T	Learning to perceive in the sensor motor approach: Piaget's theory of equilibration interpreted dynamically	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Learning to perceive is faced with a classical paradox: if understanding is required for perception, how can we learn to perceive something new, something we do not yet understand? According to the sensorimotor approach, perception involves mastery of regular sensorimotor co-variations that depend on the agent and the environment, also known as the "laws" of sensorimotor contingencies (SMCs). In this sense, perception involves enacting relevant sensorimotor skills in each situation. It is important for this proposal that such skills can be learned and refined with experience and yet up to this date, the sensorimotor approach has had no explicit theory of perceptual learning. The situation is made more complex if we acknowledge the open-ended nature of human learning. In this paper we propose Piaget's theory of equilibration as a potential candidate to fulfill this role. This theory highlights the importance of intrinsic sensorimotor norms, in terms of the closure of sensorimotor schemes. It also explains how the equilibration of a sensorimotor organization faced with novelty or breakdowns proceeds by re-shaping pre-existing structures in coupling with dynamical regularities of the world. This way learning to perceive is guided by the equilibration of emerging forms of skillful coping with the world. We demonstrate the compatibility between Piaget's theory and the sensorimotor approach by providing a dynamical formalization of equilibration to give an explicit micro-genetic account of sensorimotor learning and, by extension, of how we learn to perceive. This allows us to draw important lessons in the form of general principles for open-ended sensorimotor learning, including the need for an intrinsic normative evaluation by the agent itself. We also explore implications of our micro-genetic account at the personal level.
410	dynamical	2013	Cusumano, JP; Dingwell, JB	Movement variability near goal equivalent manifolds: Fluctuations, control, and model-based analysis	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Fluctuations in the repeated performance of human movements have been the subject of intense scrutiny because they are generally believed to contain important information about the function and health of the neuromotor system. A variety of approaches has been brought to bear to study these fluctuations. However it is frequently difficult to understand how to synthesize different perspectives to give a coherent picture. Here, we describe a conceptual framework for the experimental study of motor variability that helps to unify geometrical methods, which focus on the role of motor redundancy, with dynamical methods that characterize the error-correcting processes regulating the performance of skilled tasks. We describe how goal functions, which mathematically specify the task strategy being employed, together with ideas from the control of redundant systems, allow one to formulate simple, experimentally testable dynamical models of inter-trial fluctuations. After reviewing the basic theory, we present a list of five general hypotheses on the structure of fluctuations that can be expected in repeated trials of goal-directed tasks. We review recent experimental applications of this general approach, and show how it can be used to precisely characterize the error-correcting control used by human subjects. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
411	dynamical	2012	Wallot, S; Van Orden, G	Ultrafast Cognition	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Observations of ultrafast cognition in human performance challenge intuitive information processing and computation metaphors of cognitive processing. Instances of ultrafast cognition are marked by ultrafast response times of reliable, accurate responses to a relatively complex stimulus. Ultrafast means response times that are as fast as a single feedforward burst of activity across the nervous system connecting eye to hand. Thus the information processing and computation metaphors in question are those in which some amount of time is required to decide and initiate a response, over and above the minimum time required, physiologically, for the eye-hand chain of action potentials - these are metaphors in which the brain does work that has a measurable duration in time. Ultrafast cognition can be explained by synergies spanning the mind and body. Synergies are temporary dynamical structures that anticipate context-appropriate behaviour An anticipatory state poises the mind and body in symmetry among equivalent options for behaviour and only a minimal change in context, favouring one option over any other is sufficient to break symmetry and enact an ultrafast cognitive response.
412	dynamical	2012	Stadnitski, T	Some Critical Aspects of Fractality Research	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Numerous empirical studies identified fractal noise in human behavior. According to the theory of Self Organized Criticality, long memory 1/f scaling is a signature of stable and adaptive complex dynamical systems. This article discusses the following aspects of fractality research: (a) generation of fractal noise in simulation studies: (6) quality of some popular estimators of fractal parameters; (c) measurement artifacts in cognitive performances. 36 lime series obtained in response tasks experiments under three different task conditions serve as empirical basis.
413	dynamical	2010	Lahlou, S	Digitization and transmission of human experience	SOCIAL SCIENCE INFORMATION SUR LES SCIENCES SOCIALES	Transmission of human experience is essential for many purposes. It has two aspects: content and social relations. Digital technologies can solve some of the classic issues around the capture and transmission of human experience. Using these new technical affordances as a basis, this article presents a framework to capture and describe human activity and experience based on video and cooperative explicitation of activity trajectories with the subject, using a transition model inspired by the formalism of dynamical systems. The article also introduces this special issue, 'Digitize and Transfer', and gives an overview of its contents.
414	dynamical	2009	Mizraji, E; Pomi, A; Valle-Lisboa, JC	Dynamic searching in the brain	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Cognitive functions rely on the extensive use of information stored in the brain, and the searching for the relevant information for solving some problem is a very complex task. Human cognition largely uses biological search engines, and we assume that to study cognitive function we need to understand the way these brain search engines work. The approach we favor is to study multi-modular network models, able to solve particular problems that involve searching for information. The building blocks of these multimodular networks are the context dependent memory models we have been using for almost 20 years. These models work by associating an output to the Kronecker product of an input and a context. Input, context and output are vectors that represent cognitive variables. Our models constitute a natural extension of the traditional linear associator. We show that coding the information in vectors that are processed through association matrices, allows for a direct contact between these memory models and some procedures that are now classical in the Information Retrieval field. One essential feature of context-dependent models is that they are based on the thematic packing of information, whereby each context points to a particular set of related concepts. The thematic packing can be extended to multimodular networks involving input-output contexts, in order to accomplish more complex tasks. Contexts act as passwords that elicit the appropriate memory to deal with a query. We also show toy versions of several 'neuromimetic' devices that solve cognitive tasks as diverse as decision making or word sense disambiguation. The functioning of these multimodular networks can be described as dynamical systems at the level of cognitive variables.
415	dynamical	2009	Barakova, EI; Lourens, T	Mirror neuron framework yields representations for robot interaction	NEUROCOMPUTING	Common coding is a functional principle that underlies the mirror neuron paradigm. It insures actual parity between perception and action, since the perceived and performed actions are equivalently and simultaneously represented within the mirror neuron system. Based on the parity of this representation we show how the mirror neuron system may facilitate the interaction between two robots. Synchronization between neuron groups in different structures of the mirror neuron system are on the basis of the interaction behavior. The robotic simulation is used to illustrate several interactions. The resulting synchronization and turn taking behaviors show the potential of the mirror neuron paradigm for designing of socially meaningful behaviors. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved,
416	dynamical	2008	Negrello, M; Pasemann, F	Attractor landscapes and active tracking: The neurodynamics of embodied action	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Behavior is the product of three intertwining dynamics: of the world, of the body and of internal control structures. Neurodynamics focuses on the dynamics of neural control, while observing interfaces with the world and the body. From this perspective, we present a dynamical analysis of embodied recurrent neural networks evolved to control a cybernetic device that solves a problem in active tracking. For competent action selection, agents must rely on the attractor landscapes of the evolved networks. Insights into how the networks achieve this are given in terms of the network's dynamical substrate, which highlights the role of the network's inherent attractors as they change as a function of the input parameters (sensors). We introduce some terminological extensions to neurodynamics to allow for a more precise formulation of how attractor changes influence behavior generation: in particular, attractor landscapes, which are the space of all attractors accessible through coherent parametrizations of the network (input stimuli), and the meta-transient, which resolves behavior by approaching attractors as they shape-shift. We apply these concepts to the analysis of interesting behaviors of the tracking device, such as temporal contextual dependency, chaotic transitory regimes in moments of ambiguity, and implicit mapping of environmental asymmetricities in the response of the device. Finally, we discuss the relevance of the concepts introduced in terms of autonomy, learning, and modularity.
417	dynamical	2003	Giere, RN	The role of computation in scientific cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL & THEORETICAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	This paper is a contribution to that part of science studies known as 'the cognitive study of science'. The general goal of such studies is to understand cognition as it occurs in modern science. Attention is restricted to higher energy physics (HEP) practiced at a research laboratory such as the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN). The dominant paradigm in cognitive science would have us understand the acquisition of know ledge regarding elementary particles in terms of a cognitive agent that performs computations on a symbolic representation. In the case of HEP, however, it is difficult to identify a cognitive agent or the required symbolic representations and algorithms. The notion of 'collective cognition' provides a step in the right direction, but does not go far enough. I argue that we need to invoke a more radical notion of 'distributed cognition' that explicitly includes artefacts. However, the inclusion of artefacts in scientific cognitive systems makes application of the cognition as computation paradigm even more problematic. I conclude that scientific cognitive systems are hybrid systems including both computational and dynamical artefacts as well as human agents. Scientific knowledge itself is best regarded as the impersonal product of a whole scientific community.
418	dynamical	1997	Eliasmith, C	Computation and dynamical models of mind	MINDS AND MACHINES	Van Gelder (1995) has recently spearheaded a movement to challenge the dominance of connectionist and classicist models in cognitive science. The dynamical conception of cognition is van Gelder's replacement for the computation bound paradigms provided by connectionism and classicism. He relies on the Watt governor to fulfill the role of a dynamicist Turing machine and claims that the Motivational Oscillatory Theory (MOT) provides a sound empirical basis for dynamicism. In other words, the Watt governor is to be the theoretical exemplar of the class of systems necessary for cognition and MOT is an empirical instantiation of that class. However, I shall argue that neither the Watt governor nor MOT successfully fulfill these prescribed roles. This failure, along with van Gelder's peculiar use of the concept of computation and his struggle with representationalism, prevent him from providing a convincing alternative to current cognitive theories.
419	dynamical	1997	Horgan, T	Connectionism and the philosophical foundations of cognitive science	METAPHILOSOPHY	0
420	dynamical	2013	Froese, T; Gershenson, C; Rosenblueth, DA	The Dynamically Extended Mind A Minimal Modeling Case Study	2013 IEEE CONGRESS ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION (CEC)	The extended mind hypothesis has stimulated much interest in cognitive science. However, its core claim, i.e. that the process of cognition can extend beyond the brain via the body and into the environment, has been heavily criticized. A prominent critique of this claim holds that when some part of the world is coupled to a cognitive system this does not necessarily entail that the part is also constitutive of that cognitive system. This critique is known as the "coupling-constitution fallacy". In this paper we respond to this reductionist challenge by using an evolutionary robotics approach to create a minimal model of two acoustically coupled agents. We demonstrate how the interaction process as a whole has properties that cannot be reduced to the contributions of the isolated agents. We also show that the neural dynamics of the coupled agents has formal properties that are inherently impossible for those neural networks in isolation. By keeping the complexity of the model to an absolute minimum, we are able to illustrate how the coupling-constitution fallacy is in fact based on an inadequate understanding of the constitutive role of nonlinear interactions in dynamical systems theory.
421	dynamical	2012	Riley, MA; Holden, JG	Dynamics of cognition	WILEY INTERDISCIPLINARY REVIEWS-COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The application of dynamical systems methods and concepts to cognitive phenomena has broadened the range of testable hypotheses and theoretical narratives available to cognitive scientists. Most research in cognitive dynamics tests the degree to which observed cognitive performance is consistent with one or another core phenomena associated with complex dynamical systems, such as tests for phase transitions, coupling among processes, or scaling laws. Early applications of dynamical systems theory to perceptual-motor performance and developmental psychology paved the way for more recent applications of dynamical systems analyses, models, and theoretical concepts in areas such as learning, memory, speech perception, decision making, problem solving, and reading, among others. Reviews of the empirical results of both foundational and contemporary cognitive dynamics are provided. (C) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
422	dynamical	2009	Gerth, S; Graben, PB	Unifying syntactic theory and sentence processing difficulty through a connectionist minimalist parser	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Syntactic theory provides a rich array of representational assumptions about linguistic knowledge and processes. Such detailed and independently motivated constraints on grammatical knowledge ought to play a role in sentence comprehension. However most grammar-based explanations of processing difficulty in the literature have attempted to use grammatical representations and processes per se to explain processing difficulty. They did not take into account that the description of higher cognition in mind and brain encompasses two levels: on the one hand, at the macrolevel, symbolic computation is performed, and on the other hand, at the microlevel, computation is achieved through processes within a dynamical system. One critical question is therefore how linguistic theory and dynamical systems can be unified to provide an explanation for processing effects. Here, we present such a unification for a particular account to syntactic theory: namely a parser for Stabler's Minimalist Grammars, in the framework of Smolensky's Integrated Connectionist/Symbolic architectures. In simulations we demonstrate that the connectionist minimalist parser produces predictions which mirror global empirical findings from psycholinguistic research.
423	dynamical	2006	Kozma, R; Fukuda, T	Intentional dynamic systems: Fundamental concepts and applications	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS	The concepts of meaning and intentionality play a central role in understanding animal and human intelligence, and they are crucial for creating artifacts with intelligent behavior and robust autonomy in real-life scenarios. The Intentional Dynamical Systems Symposium IDS'04 was held in Memphis, Tennessee, April 26-27, 2004, and it gave a forum to researchers working on the intensively developing interdisciplinary area of dynamical approaches to embedded cognition, based on self-organized development of autonomous systems. The present issue contains selected papers from the symposium addressing dynamical aspects of intentionality and intelligent behavior. All papers have been carefully peer reviewed to meet the standards of the journal. Contributions to this issue cover neuro-physiological foundations of human cortical dynamics, computational neuro-pharmacology and hippocampal modeling, development of KIII models for cognitive map generation, utilization of KII and KIII sets as logical gates and associative memories for odor recognition, evolutionary development of control for autonomous robot, and incorporating emotional representations in interactive robots. (c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
424	dynamical	2004	Kinsner, W	Is entropy suitable to characterize data and signals for cognitive informatics?	PROCEEDINGS OF THE THIRD IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE INFORMATICS	This paper provides a review of Shannon and other entropy measures in evaluating the quality of materials used in perception, cognition and learning processes. Energy-based metrics are not suitable for cognition, as energy itself does not carry information. Instead, morphological (structural and contextual) as well as entropy-based metrics should be considered in cognitive informatics. The data and signal transformation processes are defined and discussed in the perceptual framework, followed by various classes of information and entropies suitable for characterization of data, signals and distortion. Other entropies are also described, including the Renyi generalized entropy spectrum, Kolmogorov complexity measure, Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy and Prigogine entropy for evolutionary dynamical systems. Although such entropy-based measures are suitable for many signals, they are not sufficient for scale-invariant (fractal and multifractal) signals without complementary measures.
425	dynamical	1996	Garson, JW	Cognition poised at the edge of chaos: A complex alternative to a symbolic mind	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper explores a line of argument against the classical paradigm in cognitive science that is based upon properties of non-linear dynamical systems, especially in their chaotic and near-chaotic behavior. Systems of this Kind are capable of generating information-rich macro behavior that could be useful to cognition. I argue that a brain operating at the edge of chaos could generate high-complexity cognition in this way. If this hypothesis is correct, then the symbolic processing methodology in cognitive science faces serious obstacles. A symbolic description of the mind will be extremely difficult, and even if it is achieved to some approximation, there will still be reasons for rejecting the hypothesis that the brain is in fact a symbolic processor.
426	dynamical	2014	Duran, ND; Dale, R	Perspective-taking in dialogue as self-organization under social constraints	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	We present a dynamical systems account of how simple social information influences perspective-taking. Our account is motivated by the notion that perspective-taking may obey common dynamic principles with perceptuomotor coupling. We turn to the prominent HKB dynamical model of motor coordination, drawing from basic principles of self-organization to describe how conversational perspective-taking unfolds in a low-dimensional attractor landscape. We begin by simulating experimental data taken from a simple instruction-following task, in which participants have different expectations about their interaction partner. By treating belief states as different values of a control parameter, we show that data generated by a basic dynamical process fits overall egocentric and other-centric response distributions, the time required for participants to enact a response on a trial-by-trial basis, and the action dynamics exhibited in individual trials. We end by discussing the theoretical significance of dynamics in dialog, arguing that high-level coordination such as perspective-taking may obey similar dynamics as perceptuomotor coordination, pointing to common principles of adaptivity and flexibility during dialog. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
427	dynamical	2013	Shapiro, LA	Dynamics and Cognition	MINDS AND MACHINES	Many who advocate dynamical systems approaches to cognitive science believe themselves committed to the thesis of extended cognition and to the rejection of representation. I argue that this belief is false. In part, this misapprehension rests on a warrantless re-conception of cognition as intelligent behavior. In part also, it rests on thinking that conceptual issues can be resolved empirically. Once these issues are sorted out, the way is cleared for a dynamical systems approach to cognition that is free to retain the standard conception of cognition as taking place in the head, and over representations.
428	dynamical	2011	Hotton, S; Yoshimi, J	Extending Dynamical Systems Theory to Model Embodied Cognition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We define a mathematical formalism based on the concept of an ''open dynamical system" and show how it can be used to model embodied cognition. This formalism extends classical dynamical systems theory by distinguishing a ''total system'' (which models an agent in an environment) and an ''agent system'' (which models an agent by itself), and it includes tools for analyzing the collections of overlapping paths that occur in an embedded agent's state space. To illustrate the way this formalism can be applied, several neural network models are embedded in a simple model environment. Such phenomena as masking, perceptual ambiguity, and priming are then observed. We also use this formalism to reinterpret examples from the embodiment literature, arguing that it provides for a more thorough analysis of the relevant phenomena.
429	dynamical	2010	Vimal, RLP	MATCHING AND SELECTION OF A SPECIFIC SUBJECTIVE EXPERIENCE: CONJUGATE MATCHING AND EXPERIENCE	JOURNAL OF INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCIENCE	We incorporate the dual-mode concept in our dual-aspect PE-SE (proto-experience-subjective experience) framework. The two modes are: (1) the non-tilde mode that is the physical (material) and mental aspect of cognition (memory and attention) related feedback signals in a neural-network, which refers to the cognitive nearest past approaching towards present; and (2) the tilde mode that is the material and mental aspect of the feed-forward signals due to external environmental input and internal endogenous input, which pertains to the nearest future approaching towards present and is a entropy-reversed representation of non-tilde mode. Furthermore, one could argue that there are at least five sub-pathways in the stimulus-dependent feed-forward pathway and cognitive feedback pathway for information transfer in the brain dynamics: (i) classical axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway including electromagnetic information field sub-pathway; (ii) quantum dendritic-dendritic microtubule (MT) (dendritic webs) sub-pathway; (iii) Ca++-related astroglial-neural sub-pathway; (iv) (a) the sub-pathway related to extrasynaptic signal transmission between fine distal dendrites of cortical neurons for the local subtle modulation due to voltages created by intradendritic dual-aspect charged surface effects within the Debye layer around endogenous structures such as microtubules (MT) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in dendrites, and (b) the sub-pathway related to extracellular volume transmission as fields of neural activity for the global modulation in axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway; and (v) the sub-pathway related to information transmission via soliton propagation. We propose that: (i) the quantum conjugate matching between experiences in the mental aspect of the tilde mode and that of the non-tilde mode is related more to the mental aspect of the quantum microtubule-dendritic-web and less to that of the non-quantum sub-pathways; and (ii) the classical matching between experiences in the mental aspect of the tilde mode and that of the non-tilde mode is related to the mental aspect of the non-quantum sub-pathways (such as classical axonal-dendritic neural sub-pathway). In both cases, a specific SE is selected when the tilde mode interacts with the non-tilde mode to match for a specific SE, and when the necessary ingredients of SEs (such as the formation of neural networks, wakefulness, re-entry, attention, working memory, and so on) are satisfied. When the conjugate match is made between the two modes, the world-presence (Now) is disclosed. The material aspects in the tilde mode and that in the non-tilde mode are matched to link structure with function, whereas the mental aspects in the tilde mode and that in the non-tilde mode are matched to link experience with structure and function.
430	dynamical	2010	Hope, T; Stoianov, I; Zorzi, M	Through Neural Stimulation to Behavior Manipulation: A Novel Method for Analyzing Dynamical Cognitive Models	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The dynamical systems' approach to cognition (Dynamicism) promises computational models that effectively embed cognitive processing within its more natural behavioral context. Dynamical cognitive models also pose difficult, analytical challenges, which motivate the development of new analytical methodology. We start by illustrating the challenge by applying two conventional analytical methods to a well-known Dynamicist model of categorical perception. We then introduce our own analysis, which works by analogy with neural stimulation methods, and which yields some novel insights into the way the model works. We then extend and apply the method to a second Dynamicist model, which captures the key psychophysical trends that emerge when humans and animals compare two numbers. The results of the analysis-which reveals units with tuning functions that are monotonically related to the magnitudes of the numbers that the agents must compare-offer a clear contribution to the contentious debate concerning the way number information is encoded in the brain.
431	dynamical	2009	Lipinski, J; Sandamirskaya, Y; Schoner, G	Swing it to the left, swing it to the right: enacting flexible spatial language using a neurodynamic framework	COGNITIVE NEURODYNAMICS	Research is continually expanding the empirical and theoretical picture of embodiment and dynamics in language. To date, however, a formalized neural dynamic framework for embodied linguistic processes has yet to emerge. To advance embodied theories of language, the present work develops a formalized neural dynamic framework of spatial language that explicitly integrates linguistic processes and dynamic sensory-motor systems. We then implement and test our spatial language architecture on a robotic platform continuously linked to real-time camera input. In a suite of tasks using everyday objects we demonstrate the framework's capacity for both contextually-dependent behavioral flexibility and the seamless integration of spatial, non-spatial, and symbolic representations. To our knowledge this is the first unified, neurally-grounded architecture integrating these processes and behaviors.
432	dynamical	2009	Ward, R; Ward, R	Representation in dynamical agents	NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper extends experiments by Beer [Beer, R. D. (1996). Toward the evolution of dynamical neural networks for minimally cognitive behavior. In P. Maes, M. Mataric, J. Meyer, J. Pollack, & S. Wilson (Eds.), Front animals to animals 4: Proceedings of the fourth international conference on simulation of adaptive behavior (pp. 421-429). MIT Press: Beer, R. D. (2003). The dynamics of active categorical perception in an evolved model agent (with commentary and response). Adaptive Behavior, 11 (4), 209-243] with an evolved, dynamical agent to further explore the question of representation in cognitive systems. Beer's environmentally-situated visual agent was controlled by a continuous-time recurrent neural network, and evolved to perform a categorical perception task, discriminating circles from diamonds. Despite the agent's high levels of discrimination performance, Beer found no evidence of internal representation in the best-evolved agent's nervous system. Here we examine the generality of this result. We evolved an agent for shape discrimination, and performed extensive behavioral analyses to test for representation. In this case we find that agents developed to discriminate equal-width shapes exhibit what Clark [Clark, A. (1997). The dynamical challenge. Cognitive Science, 21 (4), 461-481] calls "weak-substantive representation". The agent had internal configurations that (1) were understandably related to the object in the environment, and (2) were functionally used in a task relevant way when the target was not visible to the agent. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
433	dynamical	2014	Limongi, R; Tomio, A; Ibanez, A	Dynamical predictions of insular hubs for social cognition and their application to stroke	FRONTIERS IN BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The insular cortex (IC) is considered a rich hub for context-sensitive emotions/social cognition. Patients with focal IC stroke provide unique opportunities to study socio-emotional processes. Nevertheless, Couto et al. (20130) have recently reported controversial results regarding IC involvement in emotion and social cognition. Similarly, patients with similar lesions show high functional variability, ranging from almost totally preserved to strongly impaired behavior. Critical evidence suggests that the variability of these patients in the above domains can be explained by enhanced neuroplasticity, compensatory processes, and functional remapping after stroke. Therefore, socio-emotional processes would depend on long-distance connections between the IC and frontotemporal regions. We propose that predictive coding and effective connectivity represent a novel approach to explore functional connectivity and assess compensatory, contralateral, and subsidiary network differences among focal stroke patients. This approach would help explain why socio-emotional performance is so variable within this population.
434	dynamical	2014	Alroe, HF; Noe, E	Second-Order Science of Interdisciplinary Research A Polyocular Framework for Wicked Problems	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Context: The problems that are most in need of interdisciplinary collaboration are "wicked problems," such as food crises, climate change mitigation, and sustainable development, with many relevant aspects, disagreement on what the problem is, and contradicting solutions. Such complex problems both require and challenge interdisciplinarity. Problem: The conventional methods of interdisciplinary research fall short in the case of wicked problems because they remain first-order science. Our aim is to present workable methods and research designs for doing second-order science in domains where there are many different scientific knowledges on any complex problem. Method: We synthesize and elaborate a framework for second-order science in interdisciplinary research based on a number of earlier publications, experiences from large interdisciplinary research projects, and a perspectivist theory of science. Results: The second-order polyocular framework for interdisciplinary research is characterized by five principles. Second-order science of interdisciplinary research must: 1. draw on the observations of first-order perspectives, 2. address a shared dynamical object, 3. establish a shared problem, 4. rely on first-order perspectives to see themselves as perspectives, and 5. be based on other rules than first-order research. Implications: The perspectivist insights of second-order science provide a new way of understanding interdisciplinary research that leads to new polyocular methods and research designs. It also points to more reflexive ways of dealing with scientific expertise in democratic processes. The main challenge is that this is a paradigmatic shift, which demands that the involved disciplines, at least to some degree, subscribe to a perspectivist view. Constructivist content: Our perspectivist approach to science is based on the second-order cybernetics and systems theories of von Foerster, Maruyama, Maturana & Varela, and Luhmann, coupled with embodied theories of cognition and semiotics as a general theory of meaning from von Uekll and Peirce.
435	dynamical	2014	Abney, DH; Warlaumont, AS; Haussman, A; Ross, JM; Wallot, S	Using nonlinear methods to quantify changes in infant limb movements and vocalizations	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The pairing of dynamical systems theory and complexity science brings novel concepts and methods to the study of infant motor development. Accordingly, this longitudinal case study presents a new approach to characterizing the dynamics of infant limb and vocalization behaviors. A single infant's vocalizations and limb movements were recorded from 51-days to 305-days of age. On each recording day, accelerometers were placed on all four of the infant's limbs and an audio recorder was worn on the child's chest. Using nonlinear time series analysis methods, such as recurrence quantification analysis and Allan factor, we quantified changes in the stability and multiscale properties of the infant's behaviors across age as well as how these dynamics relate across modalities and effectors. We observed that particular changes in these dynamics preceded or coincided with the onset of various developmental milestones. For example, the largest changes in vocalization dynamics preceded the onset of canonical babbling. The results show that nonlinear analyses can help to understand the functional co-development of different aspects of infant behavior.
436	dynamical	2014	Beer, RD	Dynamical systems and embedded cognition	CAMBRIDGE HANDBOOK OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	0
437	dynamical	2012	Spencer, JP; Barich, K; Goldberg, J; Perone, S	Behavioral dynamics and neural grounding of a dynamic field theory of multi-object tracking	JOURNAL OF INTEGRATIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The ability to dynamically track moving objects in the environment is crucial for efficient interaction with the local surrounds. Here, we examined this ability in the context of the multi-object tracking (MOT) task. Several theories have been proposed to explain how people track moving objects; however, only one of these previous theories is implemented in a real-time process model, and there has been no direct contact between theories of object tracking and the growing neural literature using ERPs and fMRI. Here, we present a neural process model of object tracking that builds from a Dynamic Field Theory of spatial cognition. Simulations reveal that our dynamic field model captures recent behavioral data examining the impact of speed and tracking duration on MOT performance. Moreover, we show that the same model with the same trajectories and parameters can shed light on recent ERP results probing how people distribute attentional resources to targets vs. distractors. We conclude by comparing this new theory of object tracking to other recent accounts, and discuss how the neural grounding of the theory might be effectively explored in future work.
438	dynamical	2012	Mirolli, M	Representations in Dynamical Embodied Agents: Re-Analyzing a Minimally Cognitive Model Agent	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Understanding the role of representations in cognitive science is a fundamental problem facing the emerging framework of embodied, situated, dynamical cognition. To make progress, I follow the approach proposed by an influential representational skeptic, Randall Beer: building artificial agents capable of minimally cognitive behaviors and assessing whether their internal states can be considered to involve representations. Hence, I operationalize the concept of representing as standing in, and I look for representations in embodied agents involved in simple categorization tasks. In a first experiment, no representation can be found, but the relevance of the task is undermined by the fact that agents with no internal states can reach high performance. A simple modification makes the task more representationally hungry, and in this case, agents internal states are found to qualify as representations. I conclude by discussing the benefits of reconciling the embodied-dynamical approach with the notion of representation.
439	dynamical	2008	Froese, T; Di Paolo, EA	Stability of coordination requires mutuality of interaction in a model of embodied agents	FROM ANIMALS TO ANIMATS 10, PROCEEDINGS	We used an evolutionary robotics methodology to generate pairs of simulated agents capable of reliably establishing and maintaining a coordination pattern under noisy conditions. Unlike previous related work, agents were only evolved for this ability and not for their capacity to discriminate social contingency (i.e., a live responsive partner) from non-contingent engagements (i.e., a recording). However, when they were made to interact with a recording of their partner made during a successful previous interaction, the coordination pattern could not be established. An analysis of the system's underlying dynamics revealed (i) that stability of the coordination pattern requires ongoing mutuality of interaction, and (ii) that the interaction process is not only constituted by, but also constitutive of, individual behavior. We suggest that this stability of coordination is a general property of a certain class of interactively coupled dynamical systems, and conclude that psychological explanations of an individual's sensitivity to social contingency need to take into account the role of the interaction process.
440	dynamical	1997	vanGeert, P	Nonlinear dynamics and the explanation of mental and behavioral development	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	This article argues that the process of development as such explains a great deal of the forms and properties of individual developmental trajectories, without the necessity of having to rely on either external or internal factors or causes. Both the problem of developmental change (dissimilarity) and invariance (similarity) can be explained by employing a dynamic systems conceptualization of development. It is shown that dynamic systems models on the one hand and those of the genuine developmental models in psychology on the other, share a set of important general properties that are able to explain both the universal and the idiosyncratic aspects of developmental processes. The concept of mental and behavioral ecology, which may serve as a starting point for specific theories of development of cognition, social behavior, personality and so forth, is discussed. It is concluded that both long-term and short-term developmental patterns will be shown to follow similar abstract dynamical principles.
441	dynamical	2016	Abrahamson, D; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Learning Is Moving in New Ways: The Ecological Dynamics of Mathematics Education	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Whereas emerging technologies, such as touchscreen tablets, are bringing sensorimotor interaction back into mathematics learning activities, existing educational theory is not geared to inform or analyze passages from action to concept. We present case studies of tutor-student behaviors in an embodied-interaction learning environment, the Mathematical Imagery Trainer. Drawing on ecological dynamics-a blend of dynamical-systems theory and ecological psychology-we explain and demonstrate that: (a) students develop sensorimotor schemes as solutions to interaction problems; (b) each scheme is oriented on an attentional anchor-a real or imagined object, area, or other aspect or behavior of the perceptual manifold that emerges to facilitate motor-action coordination; and (c) when symbolic artifacts are introduced into the arena, they may both mediate new affordances for students' motor-action control and shift their discourse into explicit mathematical re-visualization of the environment. Symbolic artifacts are ontological hybrids evolving from things with which you act to things with which you think. Students engaged in embodied-interaction learning activities are first attracted to symbolic artifacts as prehensible environmental features optimizing their grip on the world, yet in the course of enacting the improved control routines, the artifacts become frames of reference for establishing and articulating quantitative systems known as mathematical reasoning.
442	dynamical	2015	Aerts, D; de Bianchi, MS	The unreasonable success of quantum probability I: Quantum measurements as uniform fluctuations	JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce a model which allows to represent the probabilities associated with an arbitrary measurement situation as it appears in different domains of science - from cognitive science to physics - and use it to explain the emergence of quantum probabilities (the Born rule) as uniform fluctuations on this measurement situation. The model exploits the geometry of simplexes to represent the states both of the system and the measuring apparatus, in a way that the measurement probabilities can be derived as the Lebesgue measure of suitably defined convex subregions of the simplex under consideration. Although the model we propose, which we call the uniform tension-reduction (UTR) model, is an abstract construct, it admits physical realizations. In this article we consider a very simple and evocative one, using a material point particle which is acted upon by special elastic membranes, which by breaking and collapsing are able to "release the tension" and produce the different possible outcomes. This easy to visualize mechanical realization allows one to gain considerable insight into the possible hidden structure of a measurement process, be it from a measurement associated with a situation in cognitive science or in physics, or in any other domain. We also show that the UTR-model can be further generalized into a model describing conditions of lack of knowledge generated by non-uniform fluctuations, which we call the general tension-reduction (GTR) model. In this more general framework, which is more suitable to describe typical experiments in cognitive science, we define and motivate a notion of universal measurement, describing the most general possible condition of lack of knowledge in a measurement, emphasizing that the uniform fluctuations characterizing quantum measurements can also be understood as an average over all possible forms of non-uniform fluctuations which can be actualized in a measurement context. This means that the Born rule of quantum mechanics can be understood as a first order approximation of a more general non-uniform theory, thus explaining part of the great success of quantum probability in the description of different domains of reality. And more specifically, also providing a possible explanation for the success of quantum cognition, a research field in cognitive science employing the quantum formalism as a modeling tool. This is the first part of a two-part article. In the second part (Aerts and Sassoli de Bianchi, 2014a), the proof of the equivalence between universal measurements and uniform measurements, and its significance for quantum theory as a first order approximation, is given and further analyzed. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
443	dynamical	2015	Kirchhoff, MD	Extended Cognition & the Causal-Constitutive Fallacy: In Search for a Diachronic and Dynamical Conception of Constitution	PHILOSOPHY AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL RESEARCH	Philosophical accounts of the constitution relation have been explicated in terms of synchronic relations between higher- and lower-level entities. Such accounts, I argue, are temporally austere or impoverished, and are consequently unable to make sense of the diachronic and dynamic character of constitution in dynamical systems generally and dynamically extended cognitive processes in particular. In this paper, my target domain is extended cognition based on insights from nonlinear dynamics. Contrariwise to the mainstream literature in both analytical metaphysics and extended cognition, I develop a nonstandard, alternative conception of constitution, which I call diachronic process constitution. It will be argued that only a diachronic and dynamical conception of constitution is consistent with the nature of constitution in distributed cognitive processes.
444	dynamical	2014	Laroche, J; Berardi, AM; Brangier, E	Embodiment of intersubjective time: relational dynamics as attractors in the temporal coordination of interpersonal behaviors and experiences	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses the issue of "being together," and more specifically the issue of "being together in time." We provide with an integrative framework that is inspired by phenomenology, the enactive approach and dynamical systems theories. To do so, we first define embodiment as a living and lived phenomenon that emerges from agent-world coupling. We then show that embodiment is essentially dynamical and therefore we describe experiential, behavioral and brain dynamics. Both lived temporality and the temporality of the living appear to be complex, multiscale phenomena. Next we discuss embodied dynamics in the context of interpersonal interactions, and briefly review the empirical literature on between-persons temporal coordination. Overall, we propose that being together in time emerges from the relational dynamics of embodied interactions and their flexible co-regulation.
445	dynamical	2014	Wong, AE; Vallacher, RR; Nowak, A	Fractal Dynamics in Self-Evaluation Reveal Self-Concept Clarity	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	The structural account of self-esteem and self-evaluation maintains that they are distinct constructs. Trait self-esteem is stable and is expressed over macro timescales, whereas state self-evaluation is unstable and experienced on micro timescales. We compared predictions based on the structural account with those derived from a dynamical systems perspective on the self, which maintains that self-esteem and self-evaluation are hierarchically related and share basic dynamic properties. Participants recorded a 3-minute narrative about themselves, then used the mouse paradigm (Vallacher, Nowak, Froehlich, & Rockloff, 2002) to track the momentary self-evaluation in their narrative. Multiple methods converged to reveal fractal patterns in the resultant temporal patterns, indicative of nested timescales that link micro and macro self-evaluation and thus supportive of the dynamical account. The fractal dynamics were associated with participants' self-concept clarity, suggesting that the hierarchical relation between macro self-evaluation (self-esteem) and momentary self-evaluation is predicted by the coherence of self-concept organization.
446	dynamical	2014	Grezes, J; Dezecache, G	How do shared-representations and emotional processes cooperate in response to social threat signals?	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Research in social cognition has mainly focused on the detection and comprehension of others' mental and emotional states. Doing so, past studies have adopted a "contemplative" view of the role of the observer engaged in a social interaction. However, the adaptive problem posed by the social environment is first and foremost that of coordination, which demands more of social cognition beyond mere detection and comprehension of others' hidden states. Offering a theoretical framework that takes into account the dynamical aspect of social interaction - notably by accounting for constant interplay between emotional appraisal and motor processes in socially engaged human brain - thus constitutes an important challenge for the field of social cognition. Here, we propose that our social environment can be seen as presenting opportunities for actions regarding others. Within such a framework, non-verbal social signals such as emotional displays are considered to have evolved to influence the observer in consistent ways. Consequently, social signals can modulate motor responses in observers. In line with this theoretical framework we provide evidence that emotional and motor processes are actually tightly linked during the perception of threat signals. This is ultimately reflected in the human brain by constant interplay between limbic and motor areas. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
447	dynamical	2012	Yoshimi, J	Active internalism and open dynamical systems	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The question whether cognition is subserved by internal processes in the brain (internalism) or extends in to the world (active externalism) has been vigorously debated in recent years. I show how internalist and externalist ideas can be pursued in a common framework, using (1) open dynamical systems, which allow for separate analysis of an agent's intrinsic and embodied dynamics, and (2) supervenience functions, which can be used to study how low-evel dynamical systems give rise to higher-level dynamical structures.
448	dynamical	2009	Maniadakis, M; Tani, J	Acquiring Rules for Rules: Neuro-Dynamical Systems Account for Meta-Cognition	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Both animals and humans use meta-rules in their daily life, in order to adapt their behavioral strategies to changing environmental situations. Typically, the term meta-rule encompasses those rules that are applied to rules themselves. In cognitive science, conventional approaches for designing meta-rules follow human hardwired architectures. In contrast to previous approaches, this study employs evolutionary processes to explore neuronal mechanisms accounting for meta-level rule switching. In particular, we performed a series of experiments with a simulated robot that has to learn to switch between different behavioral rules in order to accomplish given tasks. Continuous time recurrent neural networks (CTRNN) controllers with either a fully connected or a bottleneck architecture were examined. The results showed that different rules are represented by separate self-organized attractors, while rule switching is enabled by the transitions among attractors. Furthermore, the results showed that neural network division into a lower sensorimotor level and a higher cognitive level enhances the performance of the robot in the given tasks. Additionally, meta-cognitive rule processing is significantly supported by the embodiment of the controller and the lower level sensorimotor properties of environmental interaction.
449	dynamical	2008	Petersson, KM	On Cognition, Structured Sequence Processing, and Adaptive Dynamical Systems	INTERNATIONAL ELECTRONIC CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER SCIENCE	Cognitive neuroscience approaches the brain as a cognitive system: a system that functionally is conceptualized in terms of information processing. We outline some aspects of this concept and consider a physical system to be an information processing device when a subclass of its physical states can be viewed as representational/cognitive and transitions between these can be conceptualized as a process operating on these states by implementing operations on the corresponding representational structures. We identify a generic and fundamental problem in cognition: sequentially organized structured processing. Structured sequence processing provides the brain, in an essential sense, with its processing logic. In an approach addressing this problem, we illustrate how to integrate levels of analysis within a framework of adaptive dynamical systems. We note that the dynamical system framework lends itself to a description of asynchronous event-driven devices, which is likely to be important in cognition because the brain appears to be an asynchronous processing system. We use the human language faculty and natural language processing as a concrete example through out.
450	dynamical	2007	Ritter, H; Haschke, R; Steil, JJ	A Dual Interaction Perspective for Robot Cognition: Grasping as a "Rosetta Stone"	PERSPECTIVES OF NEURAL-SYMBOLIC INTEGRATION	One of the major milestones to higher cognition may be the ability to shape movements that involve very complex interactions with the environment. Based on this hypothesis we argue that the study and technical replication of manual intelligence may serve as a "Rosetta Stone" for designing cognitive robot architectures. The development of such architectures will strongly benefit if improvements to their interaction capabilities in the task domain become paired with efficient modes of interaction in the domain of configuring and restructuring such systems. We find that this "dual interaction perspective" is closely connected with the challenge of integrating holistic and symbolic aspects of representations. In the case of grasping, this requires a very tight marriage between continuous control and more discrete, symbol-like representations of contact and object states. As a concrete implementation, we propose a two layered architecture, where the lower, subsymbolic layer offers a repository of elementary dynamical processes implemented as specialised controllers for sensori-motor primitives. These controllers are represented and coordinated in the upper, symbolic layer, which employs a hierarchy of state machines. Their states represent semantically related classes of dynamic sensori-motor interaction patterns. We report on the application of the proposed architecture to a robot system comprising a 7-DOF redundant arm and a five-fingered, 20-DOF anthropomorphous manipulator. Applying the dual interaction approach, we have endowed the robot with a variety of grasping behaviours, ranging from simple grasping reflexes over visually instructed "imitation grasping" to grasping actions initiated in response to spoken commands. We conclude with a brief sketch of cognitive abilities that we now feel within close reach for the described architecture.
451	dynamical	2016	Large, EW; Kim, JC; Flaig, NK; Bharucha, JJ; Krumhansl, CL	A NEURODYNAMIC ACCOUNT OF MUSICAL TONALITY	MUSIC PERCEPTION	SCIENCE SINCE ANTIQUITY HAS ASKED WHETHER mathematical relationships among acoustic frequencies govern musical relationships. Psychophysics rejected frequency ratio theories, focusing on sensory phenomena predicted by linear analysis of sound. Cognitive psychologists have since focused on long-term exposure to the music of one's culture and short-term sensitivity to statistical regularities. Today evidence is rapidly mounting that oscillatory neurodynamics is an important source of nonlinear auditory responses. This leads us to reevaluate the significance of frequency relationships in the perception of music. Here, we present a dynamical systems analysis of mode -locked neural oscillation that predicts cross-cultural invariances in music perception and cognition. We show that this theoretical framework combines with short- and long-term learning to explain the perception of Hindustani ragas, not only by encultured Indian listeners but also by Western listeners unfamiliar with the style. These findings demonstrate that intrinsic neurodynamics contribute significantly to the perception of musical structure.
452	dynamical	2015	Muhlhoff, R	Affective resonance and social interaction	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Interactive social cognition theory and approaches of developmental psychology widely agree that central aspects of emotional and social experience arise in the unfolding of processes of embodied social interaction. Bi-directional dynamical couplings of bodily displays such as facial expressions, gestures, and vocalizations have repeatedly been described in terms of coordination, synchrony, mimesis, or attunement. In this paper, I propose conceptualizing such dynamics rather as processes of affective resonance. Starting from the immediate phenomenal experience of being immersed in interaction, I develop the philosophical notion of affective resonance to refer to a dynamic entanglement of moving and being-moved in relation. The concept of affective resonance makes visible that the interaction dynamic itself creates an affective experience rather than transmitting internal feeling states between pre-existent individuals. This leads to a philosophical framework in which relationality and ontogeny are primary over separate individuals, and in which the naturalistic distinction of a fundamental physical level versus an emerging level of social processes has to be given up.
453	dynamical	2015	Morasso, P; Casadio, M; Mohan, V; Rea, F; Zenzeri, J	Revisiting the body-schema concept in the context of whole-body postural-focal dynamics	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	The body-schema concept is revisited in the context of embodied cognition, further developing the theory formulated by Marc Jeannerod that the motor system is part of a simulation network related to action, whose function is not only to shape the motor system for preparing an action (either overt or covert) but also to provide the self with information on the feasibility and the meaning of potential actions. The proposed computational formulation is based on a dynamical system approach, which is linked to an extension of the equilibrium-point hypothesis, called Passive Motor Paradigm: this dynamical system generates goal-oriented, spatio-temporal, sensorimotor patterns, integrating a direct and inverse internal model in a multi-referential framework. The purpose of such computational model is to operate at the same time as a general synergy formation machinery for planning whole-body actions in humanoid robots and/or for predicting coordinated sensory motor patterns in human movements. In order to illustrate the computational approach, the integration of simultaneous, even partially conflicting tasks will be analyzed in some detail with regard to postural-focal dynamics, which can be defined as the fusion of a focal task, namely reaching a target with the whole-body, and a postural task, namely maintaining overall stability.
454	dynamical	2014	Busemeyer, JR; Wang, Z	Quantum Cognition: Key Issues and Discussion	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Quantum cognition is an emerging field that uses mathematical principles of quantum theory to help formalize and understand cognitive systems and processes. The topic on the potential of using quantum theory to build models of cognition (Volume 5, issue 4) introduces and synthesizes its new development through an introduction and six core articles. The current issue presents 14 commentaries on the core articles. Five key issues surface, some of which are interestingly controversial and debatable as expected for a new emerging field.
455	dynamical	2012	Maniadakis, M; Trahanias, P; Tani, J	Self-organizing high-order cognitive functions in artificial agents: Implications for possible prefrontal cortex mechanisms	NEURAL NETWORKS	In our daily life, we often adapt plans and behaviors according to dynamically changing world circumstances, selecting activities that make us feel more confident about the future. In this adaptation, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is believed to have an important role, applying executive control on other cognitive processes to achieve context switching and confidence monitoring; however, many questions remain open regarding the nature of neural processes supporting executive control. The current work explores possible mechanisms of this high-order cognitive function, transferring executing control in the domain of artificial cognitive systems. In particular, we study the self-organization of artificial neural networks accomplishing a robotic rule-switching task analogous to the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. The obtained results show that behavioral rules may be encoded in neuro-dynamic attractors, with their geometric arrangements in phase space affecting the shaping of confidence. Analysis of the emergent dynamical structures suggests possible explanations of the interactions of high-level and low-level processes in the real brain. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
456	dynamical	2012	Noack, RA	Solving the "human problem": The frontal feedback model	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	This paper argues that humans possess unique cognitive abilities due to the presence of a functional system that exists in the human brain that is absent in the non-human brain. This system, the frontal feedback system, was born in the hominin brain when the great phylogenetic expansion of the prefrontal cortex relative to posterior sensory regions surpassed a critical threshold. Surpassing that threshold effectively reversed the preferred direction of information flow in the highest association regions of the neocortex, producing the frontal feedback system. This reversal was from the caudo-rostral bias characteristic of non-human, or pre-human, brain dynamics to a rostro-caudal bias characteristic of modern human brain dynamics. The frontal feedback system works through frontal motor routines, or action schemes, manipulating the release and reconstruction of stored sensory memories in posterior sensory areas. As an obligatory feature of frontal feedback, a central character, or self, emerges within this cortical network that manifests itself as agent in these reconstructions as well as in the experience of sensory perceptions. Dynamical-systems modeling of cortical interactions is combined in the paper with recent neuroimaging studies of "resting-state" brain activity to bridge the gap between microscopic and macroscopic levels of cortical behavior. This synthesis is used to support the proposal of an information flow reversal occurring in the hominin brain and also to explain how such a reversal generates the wide variety of cognitive and experiential phenomena that many consider to be uniquely human. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
457	dynamical	2005	Van Leeuwen, M	Questions for the dynamicist: The use of dynamical systems theory in the philosophy of cognition	MINDS AND MACHINES	The concepts and powerful mathematical tools of Dynamical Systems Theory (DST) yield illuminating methods of studying cognitive processes, and are even claimed by some to enable us to bridge the notorious explanatory gap separating mind and matter. This article includes an analysis of some of the conceptual and empirical progress Dynamical Systems Theory is claimed to accomodate. While sympathetic to the dynamicist program in principle, this article will attempt to formulate a series of problems the proponents of the approach in question will need to face if they wish to prolong their optimism. The main points to be addressed involve the reductive tendencies inherent in Dynamical Systems Theory, its somewhat muddled position relative to connectionism, the metaphorical nature DST-C exhibits which hinders its explanatory potential, and DST-C's problematic account of causality. Brief discussions of the mathematical and philosophical backgrounds of DST, seminal experimental work and possible adaptations of the theory or alternative suggestions (dynamicist connectionism, neurophenomenology, R&D theory) are included.
458	dynamical	2000	Davids, K; Button, C	The cognition-dynamics interface and performance in sport	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	This commentary focuses on the relationship between intentions and actions,ns within theoretical models of movement behaviour considered in relation to sport performance. It is argued that an integrated approach is needed which seeks to explain intentionality as one of many important constraints on movement systems, An interesting question is whether complementarity is needed in models of the intentions-actions relations. it is recognised that an overarching dynamical systems approach is working towards the goal of integrating the behaviour of cognitive and movement systems. The emphasis on constraints within a unified, non-complementary framework, as well as a potential strategy for sport pedagogy.
459	dynamical	1998	Flach, JM	Cognitive systems engineering: putting things in context	ERGONOMICS	This brief commentary on the target paper by Dowell and Long presents a more optimistic view of the state of cognitive systems engineering. Ontological foundations associated with circular causality and a shift in values toward greater ecological validity distinguish cognitive systems engineering from classical cognition and human factors. Important exemplars of cognitive systems engineering are identified. Rich narrative accounts (stories) of natural work domains are presented as a critical vehicle for generalizations and a precursor to more formal symbolic systems such as those that are emerging from the field of dynamical systems.
460	dynamical	1992	ADAMS, FW; NGUYEN, HT; RAGHAVAN, R; SLAWNY, J	A PARALLEL NETWORK FOR VISUAL COGNITION	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS	This paper describes a parallel dynamical system designed to integrate model-based and data-driven approaches to image recognition in a neural network, and studies one component of the system in detail. That component is the translation-invariant network of probabilistic cellular automata (PCA's), which combines feature-detector outputs and collectively performs enhancement and recognition functions. Recognition is a novel application of the PCA. Given a model of the target object, conditions on the PCA weights are obtained which must be satisfied for object enhancement and noise rejection to occur, and "engineered" weights are constructed. For further refinement of the weights, a new training algorithm derived from optimal control theory is proposed. System operation is illustrated with examples derived from visual, infrared, and laser-radar imagery.
461	dynamical	2016	Maes, PJ	Sensorimotor Grounding of Musical Embodiment and the Role of Prediction: A Review	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In a previous article, we reviewed empirical evidence demonstrating action-based effects on music perception to substantiate the musical embodiment thesis (Maes et al., 2014). Evidence was largely based on studies demonstrating that music perception automatically engages motor processes, or that body states/movements influence music perception. Here, we argue that more rigorous evidence is needed before any decisive conclusion in favour of a 'radical' musical embodiment thesis can be posited. In the current article, we provide a focused review of recent research to collect further evidence for the 'radical' embodiment thesis that music perception is a dynamic process firmly rooted in the natural disposition of sounds and the human auditory and motor system. Though, we emphasise that, on top of these natural dispositions, long-term processes operate, rooted in repeated sensorimotor experiences and leading to learning, prediction, and error minimisation. This approach sheds new light on the development of musical repertoires, and may refine our understanding of action-based effects on music perception as discussed in our previous article (Maes et al., 2014). Additionally, we discuss two of our recent empirical studies demonstrating that music performance relies on similar principles of sensorimotor dynamics and predictive processing.
462	dynamical	2013	van Rooij, MMJW; Favela, LH; Malone, M; Richardson, MJ	Modeling the Dynamics of Risky Choice	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Individuals make decisions under uncertainty every day. Decisions are based on incomplete information concerning the potential outcome or the predicted likelihood with which events occur. In addition, individuals' choices often deviate from the rational or mathematically objective solution. Accordingly, the dynamics of human decision making are difficult to capture using conventional, linear mathematical models. Here, we present data from a 2-choice task with variable risk between sure loss and risky loss to illustrate how a simple nonlinear dynamical system can be employed to capture the dynamics of human decision making under uncertainty (i.e., multistability, bifurcations). We test the feasibility of this model quantitatively and demonstrate how the model can account for up to 86% of the observed choice behavior. The implications of using dynamical models for explaining the nonlinear complexities of human decision making are discussed as well as the degree to which the theory of nonlinear dynamical systems might offer an alternative framework for understanding human decision making processes.
463	dynamical	2013	Li, C; Lowe, R; Ziemke, T	Humanoids learning to walk: a natural CPG-actor-critic architecture	FRONTIERS IN NEUROROBOTICS	The identification of learning mechanisms for locomotion has been the subject of much research for some time but many challenges remain. Dynamic systems theory (DST) offers a novel approach to humanoid learning through environmental interaction. Reinforcement learning (RL) has offered a promising method to adaptively link the dynamic system to the environment it interacts with via a reward-based value system. In this paper, we propose a model that integrates the above perspectives and applies it to the case of a humanoid (NAO) robot learning to walk the ability of which emerges from its value-based interaction with the environment. In the model, a simplified central pattern generator (CPG) architecture inspired by neuroscientific research and DST is integrated with an actor-critic approach to RL (cog-actor-critic). In the cog-actor-critic architecture, least-square-temporal-difference based learning converges to the optimal solution quickly by using natural gradient learning and balancing exploration and exploitation. Futhermore, rather than using a traditional (designer-specified) reward it uses a dynamic value function as a stability indicator that adapts to the environment. The results obtained are analyzed using a novel DST-based embodied cognition approach. Learning to walk, from this perspective, is a process of integrating levels of sensorimotor activity and value.
464	dynamical	2012	Botvinick, M	Commentary: Why I Am Not a Dynamicist	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The dynamical systems approach in cognitive science offers a potentially useful perspective on both brain and behavior. Indeed, the importation of formal tools from dynamical systems research has already paid off for our field in many ways. However, like some other theoretical perspectives in cognitive science, the dynamical systems approach comes in both moderate or pragmatic and fundamentalist varieties (Jones & Love, 2011). In the latter form, dynamical systems theory can rise to some stirring rhetorical heights. However, as argued here, it also triggers a number of serious and specific reservations.
465	dynamical	2011	Gangopadhyay, N	The extended mind: born to be wild? A lesson from action-understanding	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The extended mind hypothesis (Clark and Chalmers in Analysis 58(1):7-19, 1998; Clark 2008) is an influential hypothesis in philosophy of mind and cognitive science. I argue that the extended mind hypothesis is born to be wild. It has undeniable and irrepressible tendencies of flouting grounding assumptions of the traditional information-processing paradigm. I present case-studies from social cognition which not only support the extended mind proposal but also bring out its inherent wildness. In particular, I focus on cases of action-understanding and discuss the role of embodied intentionality in the extended mind project. I discuss two theories of action-understanding for exploring the support for the extended mind hypothesis in embodied intersubjective interaction, namely, simulation theory and a non-simulationist perceptual account. I argue that, if the extended mind adopts a simulation theory of action-understanding, it rejects representationalism. If it adopts a non-simulationist perceptual account of action-understanding, it rejects the classical sandwich view of the mind.
466	dynamical	2009	Cyr, A; Boukadoum, M; Poirier, P	AI-SIMCOG: a simulator for spiking neurons and multiple animats' behaviours	NEURAL COMPUTING & APPLICATIONS	Designing a biologically inspired neural architecture as a controller for a complete animat or physical robot environment, to test the hypotheses on intelligence or cognition is non-trivial, particularly, if the controller is a network of spiking neurons. As a result, simulators that integrate spike coding and artificial or real-world platforms are scarce. In this paper, we present artificial intelligence simulator of cognition, a software simulator designed to explore the computational power of pulsed coding at the level of small cognitive systems. Our focus is on convivial graphical user interface, real-time operation and multilevel Hebbian synaptic adaptation, accomplished through a set of non-linear dynamic weights and on-line, life-long modulation. Inclusions of transducer and hormone components, intrinsic oscillator and several learning functions in a discrete spiking neural algorithm are distinctive features of the software. Additional features are the easy link between the production of specific neural architectures and an artificial 2D-world simulator, where one or more animats implement an input-output transfer function in real-time, as do robots in the real world. As a result, the simulator code is exportable to a robot's microprocessor. This realistic neural model is thus amenable to investigate several time related cognitive problems.
467	dynamical	2008	Sandamirskaya, Y; Schoner, G	Dynamic field theory and embodied communication	MODELLING COMMUNICATION WITH ROBOTS AND VIRTUAL HUMANS	Dynamical Field Theory is a neurally based approach to embodied and situated cognition, in which information is represented in continuous activation fields defined over metric spaces. The temporal evolution of activation patterns under the influence of inputs and neuronal interaction is described by a dynamical system, whose stable states, localized peaks of activation, are the units of representation. This approach has been successfully used to capture many elementary forms of cognition. Communication poses the new challenge of understanding how different modalities can be integrated in a continuously unfolding communicative process. In this chapter we give a brief introduction to Dynamical Field Theory in embodied cognition, and discuss extensions of its ideas to embodied communication. We sketch a highly simplified example of how sequence generation may occur in dynamical fields. We apply these concepts to a specific exemplary problem in embodied communication, turn taking, the temporal structure of which we capture in a simple model.
468	dynamical	2005	Schonbein, W	Cognition and the power of continuous dynamical systems	MINDS AND MACHINES	Traditional approaches to modeling cognitive systems are computational, based on utilizing the standard tools and concepts of the theory of computation. More recently, a number of philosophers have argued that cognition is too 'subtle' or 'complex' for these tools to handle. These philosophers propose an alternative based on dynamical systems theory. Proponents of this view characterize dynamical systems as (i) utilizing continuous rather than discrete mathematics, and, as a result, (ii) being computationally more powerful than traditional computational automata. Indeed, the logical possibility of such 'super-powerful' systems has been demonstrated in the form of analog artificial neural networks. In this paper I consider three arguments against the nomological possibility of these automata. While the first two arguments fail, the third succeeds. In particular, the presence of noise reduces the computational power of analog networks to that of traditional computational automata, and noise is a pervasive feature of information processing in biological systems. Consequently, as an empirical thesis, the proposed dynamical alternative is under-motivated: What is required is an account of how continuously valued systems could be realized in physical systems despite the ubiquity of noise.
469	dynamical	1998	Dennett, DC	Revolution, no! Reform, si!	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	For the dynamical hypothesis to be defended as a viable alternative to a computational perspective an natural cognition, the role of biological constraints needs to be considered. This task requires a detailed understanding of the structural organization and function of the dynamic nervous system, as well as a theoretical approach that grounds cognitive activity within the constraints of organism and ecological context.
470	dynamical	1998	Farhat, NH	Biomorphic dynamical networks for cognition and control	JOURNAL OF INTELLIGENT & ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Advances in understanding the neuronal code employed by cortical networks indicate that networks of parametrically coupled nonlinear iterative maps, each acting as a bifurcation processing element, furnish a potentially powerful tool for the modeling, simulation, and study of cortical networks and the host of higher-level processing and control functions they perform. Such functions are central to understanding and elucidating general principles on which the design of biomorphic learning and intelligent systems can be based. The networks concerned are dynamical in nature, in the sense that they "compute" not only with static (fixed-point) attractors but also with dynamic (periodic and chaotic) attractors. As such, they compute with diverse attractors, and utilize transitions (bifurcation) between attractors and transient chaos to carry out the functions they perform. An example of a dynamical network, a parametrically coupled net of logistic processing elements. is described and discussed together some of its behavioural attributes that are relevant to elucidating the possible role for coherence, bifurcation, and chaos in higher-level brain functions carried out by cortical networks.
471	dynamical	1997	Horgan, T	Modelling the noncomputational mind: reply	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	I explain why, within the nonclassical framework for cognitive science toe describe in the book, cognitive-state transitions can fail to be tractably computable even ef they are subserved by a discrete dynamical system whose mathematical-state transitions are tractably computable. I distinguish two ways that cognitive processing might conform to programmable rules in which all operations that apply to representation-level structure are primitive, and two corresponding constraints an models of cognition. Although Litch is correct in maintaining that classical cognitive science is not committed to the first constraint, it is committed to the second. The's fact constitutes an illuminating gloss on our claim that one foundational assumption of classicism is that human cognition conforms to programmable, representation-level, rules.
472	dynamical	2015	Bowyer, SA; Baena, FRY	Dissipative Control for Physical Human-Robot Interaction	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS	Physical human-robot interaction is fundamental to exploiting the capabilities of robots in tasks and environments where robots have limited cognition or comprehension and is virtually ubiquitous for robotic manipulation in highly unstructured environments, as are found in surgery. A critical aspect of physical human-robot interaction in these cases is controlling the robot so that the individual human and robot competencies are maximized, while guaranteeing user, task, and environment safety. Dissipative control precludes dangerous forcing of a shared tool by the robot, ensuring safety; however, it typically suffers from poor control fidelity, resulting in reduced task accuracy. In this study, a novel, rigorously formalized, n-dimensional dissipative control strategy is proposed that employs a new technique called "energy redirection" to generate control forces with increased fidelity while remaining dissipative and safe. Experimental validation of the method, for complete pose control, shows that it achieves a 90% reduction in task error compared with the current state of the art in dissipative control for the tested applications. The findings clearly demonstrate that the method significantly increases the fidelity and efficacy of dissipative control during physical human-robot interaction. This advancement expands the number of tasks and environments into which safe physical human-robot interaction can be employed effectively.
473	dynamical	2015	Fetterhoff, D; Opris, L; Simpson, SL; Deadwyler, SA; Hampson, RE; Kraft, RA	Multifractal analysis of information processing in hippocampal neural ensembles during working memory under Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol administration	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE METHODS	Background: Multifractal analysis quantifies the time-scale-invariant properties in data by describing the structure of variability over time. By applying this analysis to hippocampal interspike interval sequences recorded during performance of a working memory task, a measure of long-range temporal correlations and multifractal dynamics can reveal single neuron correlates of information processing. New method: Wavelet leaders-based multifractal analysis (WLMA) was applied to hippocampal interspike intervals recorded during a working memory task. WLMA can be used to identify neurons likely to exhibit information processing relevant to operation of brain-computer interfaces and nonlinear neuronal models. Results: Neurons involved in memory processing ("Functional Cell Types" or FCTs) showed a greater degree of multifractal firing properties than neurons without taslc-relevant firing characteristics. In addition, previously unidentified FCTs were revealed because multifractal analysis suggested further functional classification. The cannabinoid type-1 receptor (CB1R) partial agonist, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), selectively reduced multifractal dynamics in FCT neurons compared to non-FCT neurons. Comparison with existing methods: WLMA is an objective tool for quantifying the memory-correlated complexity represented by FCTs that reveals additional information compared to classification of FCTs using traditional z-scores to identify neuronal correlates of behavioral events. Conclusion: z-Score-based FCT classification provides limited information about the dynamical range of neuronal activity characterized by WLMA. Increased complexity, as measured with multifractal analysis, may be a marker of functional involvement in memory processing. The level of multifractal attributes can be used to differentially emphasize neural signals to improve computational models and algorithms underlying brain-computer interfaces. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
474	dynamical	2014	Laurent, E	Multiscale Enaction Model (MEM) he case of complexity and "context-sensitivity" in vision	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	I review the data on human visual perception that reveal the critical role played by nonvisual contextual factors influencing visual activity. The global perspective that progressively emerges reveals that vision is sensitive to multiple couplings with other systems whose nature and levels of abstraction in science are highly variable. Contrary to some views where vision is immersed in modular hard-wired modules, rather independent from higherlevel or other non-cognitive processes, converging data gathered in this article suggest that visual perception can be theorized in the larger context of biological, physical, and social systems with which it is coupled, and through which it is enacted. Therefore, any attempt to model complexity and multiscale couplings, or to develop a complex synthesis in the fields of mind, brain, and behavior, shall involve a systematic empirical study of both connectedness between systems or subsystems, and the embodied, multiscale and flexible teleology of subsystems. The conceptual model (Multiscale Enaction Model [MEM]) that is introduced in this paper finally relates empirical evidence gathered from psychology to biocomputational data concerning the human brain. Both psychological and biocomputational descriptions of MEM are proposed in order to help fill in the gap between scales of scientific analysis and to provide an account for both the autopoiesis-driven search for information, and emerging perception.
475	dynamical	2014	Amelynck, D; Maes, PJ; Martens, JP; Leman, M	Expressive Body Movement Responses to Music Are Coherent, Consistent, and Low Dimensional	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CYBERNETICS	Embodied music cognition stresses the role of the human body as mediator for the encoding and decoding of musical expression. In this paper, we set up a low dimensional functional model that accounts for 70% of the variability in the expressive body movement responses to music. With the functional principal component analysis, we modeled individual body movements as a linear combination of a group average and a number of eigenfunctions. The group average and the eigenfunctions are common to all subjects and make up what we call the commonalities. An individual performance is then characterized by a set of scores (the individualities), one score per eigenfunction. The model is based on experimental data which finds high levels of coherence/consistency between participants when grouped according to musical education. This shows an ontogenetic effect. Participants without formal musical education focus on the torso for the expression of basic musical structure (tempo). Musically trained participants decode additional structural elements in the music and focus on body parts having more degrees of freedom (such as the hands). Our results confirm earlier studies that different body parts move differently along with the music.
476	dynamical	2014	Knips, G; Zibner, SKU; Reimann, H; Popova, I; Schoner, G	A neural dynamics architecture for grasping that integrates perception and movement generation and enables on-line updating	2014 IEEE/RSJ INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INTELLIGENT ROBOTS AND SYSTEMS (IROS 2014)	We present a neural dynamics architecture for grasping that integrates perceptual processes of scene exploration, object selection and classification, and grasp pose estimation with motor processes such as planning and controlling reach and grasp movements. Inspired by theories of human embodied cognition, the entire architecture is essentially one big dynamical system from which discrete events such as initiating and terminating reaches and grasps emerge through dynamical instabilities. Using a Kinect sensor as input, we implement the architecture on a Kuka light weight arm with a Schunk Dextrous Hand and demonstrate grasping movements that are updated on- line when the object is shifted or rotated during movement planning or execution.
477	dynamical	2008	Ogai, Y; Ikegami, T	Microslip as a simulated artificial mind	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	A microslip is a type of action hesitation we experience in everyday life, which highlights the gap between human action and machine action patterns. By proposing a simple computational model for microslips, we examine the microslip as an implicit parallel dynamics underneath human cognition. Here, an agent, given as a dynamical system of a simple neural architecture, takes one of two choices, whose neural net is evolved using a genetic algorithm. An evolved agent often shows a hierarchy of action primitives and intentionality, and the agent is sensitive to the subtle differences of the object's layout, which results in a complex basin structures in the action-selection landscape.
478	dynamical	2007	Doboli, S; Minai, AA; Brown, VR	Adaptive dynamic modularity in a connectionist model of context-dependent idea generation	2007 IEEE INTERNATIONAL JOINT CONFERENCE ON NEURAL NETWORKS, VOLS 1-6	Cognitive control - the ability to produce appropriate behavior in complex situations - is a fundamental aspect of intelligence. It is increasingly evident that this control arises from the interaction of dynamics in several brain regions, and depends significantly on processes of modulation and dynamical biasing. While most research has focused on explanations of behavioral responses seen in experiments and pathologies, it is reasonable to expect that internal functions such as planning and thinking would also use similar control mechanisms. In this paper, we present a connectionist model for an idea generation process that can rapidly retrieve old ideas in familiar contexts and search for novel ideas in unfamiliar ones. Based on a simple reinforcement signal, the system learns context-dependent biases that represent effective internal "response systems" for generating ideas from conceptual elements. A broad goal of the research is to show that preconfigured structural modularity, limited real-time selectivity, and adaptive modulation can interact to produce the flexible functionality necessary for cognition and intelligent behavior.
479	dynamical	2005	Lucas, C	Evolving an integral ecology of mind	CORTEX	A deliberation upon the possibility of generating a comprehensive view of 'mind as a whole' by integrating biology, psychology and sociology, and considering 'Mind' as a dynamical interplay between values existing over many levels and scales of complex systems. This view of mind as a coevolutionary whole is related to similar ecological viewpoints being developed in the fields of artificial life and multi-agent systems. A meta-model of mind is proposed which attempts to integrate the various existing views of mind from a time perspective, and positions the field in a way that we think augurs well for the potential of mind studies based upon modem complex systems science concepts.
480	dynamical	1999	Bakker, B; den Dulk, P	Causal relationships and relationships between levels: the modes of description perspective	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Many researchers have argued for a description of nature using multiple levels, or modes of description, as we call them. This paper focuses on a confusion that follows from the multiple-mode approach, a confusion due to the notion of causation between modes. Causation between modes is reinterpreted as ordinary causation but with cause and effect described in different modes. In the first part of the paper the framework of modes of description is presented. In the second part it is applied to examples from cognitive science, which are taken from debates on the mind-brain issue and the dynamical systems approach to cognition.
481	dynamical	1998	Mitchell, M	Theories of structure versus theories of change	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The dynamics/computation debate recalls a similar debate in the evolutionary biology community concerning the relative primacy of theories of structure Versus theories of change. A full account of cognition will require a rapprochement between such theories and will include both computational and dynamical notions. The key to making computation relevant to cognition is not making it analog, but rather understanding how functional information-processing structures can emerge in complex dynamical systems.
482	dynamical	1998	van Gelder, T	Disentangling dynamics, computation, and cognition - Response	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	The nature of the dynamical hypothesis in cognitive science (the DH) is further clarified in responding to various criticisms and objections raised in commentaries. Major topics addressed include the definitions of "dynamical system" and "digtal computer"; the DH as Law of Qualitative Structure; the DH as an ontological claim; the multiple-realizability of dynamical models; the level at which the DH is formulated; the nature of dynamics; the role of representations in dynamical cognitive science; the falsifiability of the DH the extent to which the DH is open; the role of temporal and implementation considerations; and the novelty or importance of the DH. The basic formulation and defense of the DH in the target article survives intact, though some refinements are recommended.
483	dynamical	2016	Raczaszek-Leonardi, J	How does a word become a message? An illustration on a developmental time-scale	NEW IDEAS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Recent changes in views on cognition underscore its embodied, situated and distributed character. These changes are compatible with the conceptual framework of ecological psychology. However for ecological psychology to propose explanations for a broad range of cognitive phenomena, including language, it needs an account of how to link the dynamics of coupling between the organism and the environment with the apparent symbolicity of informational structures. In this paper it is proposed that a theory of information in biological systems, advocated by Howard Pattee, may help forge this link. By treating informational structures as constraints on dynamics this approach helps to identify which processes, in which systems and on what time-scales are needed for structures to 'become messages'. I will illustrate how these processes might work on developmental time-scale in the domain of language, building on the work by Edward Reed (1995, 1996) and extending it using the view of linguistic structures as constraints. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
484	dynamical	2016	Agmon, E; Gates, AJ; Churavy, V; Beer, RD	Exploring the Space of Viable Configurations in a Model of Metabolism-Boundary Co-construction	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	We introduce a spatial model of concentration dynamics that supports the emergence of spatiotemporal inhomogeneities that engage in metabolism-boundary co-construction. These configurations exhibit disintegration following some perturbations, and self-repair in response to others. We define robustness as a viable configuration's tendency to return to its prior configuration in response to perturbations, and plasticity as a viable configuration's tendency to change to other viable configurations. These properties are demonstrated and quantified in the model, allowing us to map a space of viable configurations and their possible transitions. Combining robustness and plasticity provides a measure of viability as the average expected survival time under ongoing perturbation, and allows us to measure how viability is affected as the configuration undergoes transitions. The framework introduced here is independent of the specific model we used, and is applicable for quantifying robustness, plasticity, and viability in any computational model of artificial life that demonstrates the conditions for viability that we promote.
485	dynamical	2015	Raczaszek-Leonardi, J; Nomikou, I	Beyond mechanistic interaction: value-based constraints on meaning in language	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	According to situated, embodied, and distributed approaches to cognition, language is a crucial means for structuring social interactions. Recent approaches that emphasize this coordinative function treat language as a system of replicable constraints on individual and interactive dynamics. In this paper, we argue that the integration of the replicable-constraints approach to language with the ecological view on values allows for a deeper insight into processes of meaning creation in interaction. Such a synthesis of these frameworks draws attention to important sources of structuring interactions beyond the sheer efficiency of a collective system in its current task situation. Most importantly, the workings of linguistic constraints will be shown as embedded in more general fields of values, which are realized on multiple timescales. Because the ontogenetic timescale offers a convenient window into the emergence of linguistic constraints, we present illustrations of concrete mechanisms through which values may become embodied in language use in development.
486	dynamical	2014	Rosen, D	Invoking the Muse: Dada's Chaos	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Dada, a self-proclaimed (anti) art (non) movement, took shape in 1916 among a group of writers and artists who rejected the traditions of a stagnating bourgeoisie. Instead, they adopted means of creative expression that embraced chaos, stoked instability and undermined logic, an outburst that overturned centuries of classical and Romantic aesthetics. Paradoxically, this insistence on disorder foreshadowed a new order in understanding creativity. Nearly one hundred years later, Nonlinear Dynamical Systems theory (NDS) gives renewed currency to Dada's visionary perspective on chance, chaos and creative cognition. This paper explores commonalities between NDS-theory and this early precursor of the nonlinear paradigm, suggesting that their conceptual synergy illuminates what it means to "be creative" beyond the disciplinary boundaries of either. Key features are discussed within a 5P model of creativity based on Rhodes' 4P framework (Person, Process, Press, Product), to which I add Participant-Viewer for the interactivity of observer-observed. Grounded in my own art practice, several techniques are then put forward as non-methodical methods that invoke creative border zones, those regions where Dada's chance and design are wedded in a dialectical tension of opposites.
487	dynamical	2014	Bennett, CC; Sabanovic, S; Fraune, MR; Shaw, K	Context Congruency and Robotic Facial Expressions: Do Effects on Human Perceptions Vary across Culture?	2014 23RD IEEE INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON ROBOT AND HUMAN INTERACTIVE COMMUNICATION (IEEE RO-MAN)	We performed an experimental study (n=48) of the effects of context congruency on human perceptions of robotic facial expressions across cultures (Western and East Asian individuals). We found that context congruency had a significant effect on human perceptions, and that this effect varied by the emotional valence of the context and facial expression. Moreover, these effects occurred regardless of the cultural background of the participants. In short, there were predictable patterns in the effects of congruent/incongruent environmental context on perceptions of robot affect across Western and East Asian individuals. We argue that these findings fit with a dynamical systems view of social cognition as an emergent phenomenon. Taking advantage of such context effects may ease the constraints for developing culturally-specific affective cues in human-robot interaction, opening the possibility to create culture-neutral models of robots and affective interaction.
488	dynamical	2013	Bavassi, ML; Tagliazucchi, E; Laje, R	Small perturbations in a finger-tapping task reveal inherent nonlinearities of the underlying error correction mechanism	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Time processing in the few hundred milliseconds range is involved in the human skill of sensorimotor synchronization, like playing music in an ensemble or finger tapping to an external beat. In finger tapping, a mechanistic explanation in biologically plausible terms of how the brain achieves synchronization is still missing despite considerable research. In this work we show that nonlinear effects are important for the recovery of synchronization following a perturbation (a step change in stimulus period), even for perturbation magnitudes smaller than 10% of the period, which is well below the amount of perturbation needed to evoke other nonlinear effects like saturation. We build a nonlinear mathematical model for the error correction mechanism and test its predictions, and further propose a framework that allows us to unify the description of the three common types of perturbations. While previous authors have used two different model mechanisms for fitting different perturbation types, or have fitted different parameter value sets for different perturbation magnitudes, we propose the first unified description of the behavior following all perturbation types and magnitudes as the dynamical response of a compound model with fixed terms and a single set of parameter values. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
489	dynamical	2012	Wang, RB; Zhang, ZK; Tse, CK; Qu, JY; Cao, JT	Neural coding in networks of multi-populations of neural oscillators	MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTERS IN SIMULATION	The paper studies the dynamical model of motor cognition of neural networks through the theory of stochastic phase resetting dynamics, presents the interaction, phase coding, and the evolution of the time-varying averaged number density in terms of populations of perceptive neurons, inter-neurons, and motor neurons subject to coupling, and probes into the dynamical reaction of neural networks under the condition of spontaneous movement and stimulation, respectively. With numerical simulations, we prove (1) Walter J. Freeman's conjecture that the response of cortex dynamics cannot code external stimulation information; (2) the possession of rhythm coding in the neural coding of serial neural networks; (3) the importance of neural inhibition in the regulation of the central nervous system. (C) 2010 IMACS. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
490	dynamical	2012	van Rooij, I	Self-Organization Takes Time Too	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Four articles in this issue of topiCS (volume 4, issue 1) argue against a computational approach in cognitive science in favor of a dynamical approach. I concur that the computational approach faces some considerable explanatory challenges. Yet the dynamicists proposal that cognition is self-organized seems to only go so far in addressing these challenges. Take, for instance, the hypothesis that cognitive behavior emerges when brain and body (re-)configure to satisfy task and environmental constraints. It is known that for certain systems of constraints, no procedure can exist (whether modular, local, centralized, or self-organized) that reliably finds the right configuration in a realistic amount of time. Hence, the dynamical approach still faces the challenge of explaining how self-organized constraint satisfaction can be achieved by human brains and bodies in real time. In this commentary, I propose a methodology that dynamicists can use to try to address this challenge.
491	dynamical	2008	Sandamirskaya, Y; Schoner, G	Dynamic Field Theory of Sequential Action: A Model and its Implementation on an Embodied Agent	2008 IEEE 7TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON DEVELOPMENT AND LEARNING	How sequences of actions are learned, remembered, and generated is a core problem of cognition. Despite considerable theoretical work on serial order, it typically remains unexamined how physical agents may direct sequential actions at the environment within which they are embedded. Situated physical agents face a key problem - the need to accommodate variable amounts of time it takes to terminate each individual action within the sequence. Here we examine how Dynamic Field Theory (DFT), a neuronally grounded dynamical system approach to embodied cognition, may address sequence learning and sequence generation. To demonstrate that the proposed DFT solution works with real and potentially noisy sensory systems as well as with real physical action systems, we implement the approach on a simple autonomous robot. We demonstrate how the robot acquires sequences from experiencing the associated sensory information and how the robot generates sequences based on visual information from its environment using low-level visual features.
492	dynamical	2007	Coutinho, E; Cangelosi, A	Emotion and embodiment in cognitive agents: From instincts to music	2007 INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INTEGRATION OF KNOWLEDGE INTENSIVE MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	This paper suggests the use of modeling techniques to tack into the emotion/cognition paradigm. We presented two possible frameworks focusing on the embodiment basis of emotions. The first one explores the emergence of emotion mechanisms, by establishing the primary conditions of survival and exploring the basic roots of emotional systems. These simulations show the emergence of a stable motivational system with emotional contexts resulting from dynamical categorization of objects in the environment, in answer to survival pressures and homeostatic processes. The second framework uses music as a source of information about the mechanism of emotion and we propose a model based on recurrent connectionist architectures for the prediction of emotional states in response to music experience. Results demonstrate that there are strong relationships between arousal reports and music psychoacoustics, such as tempo and dynamics. Finally we discuss future directions of research on emotions based on cognitive agents and mathematical models.
493	dynamical	2005	Kozma, R; Myers, M	Analysis of phase transitions in KIV with amygdala during simulated navigation control	Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Vols 1-5	A biologically inspired dynamical neural network model called KIV is used in this work to design autonomous agents. The KIV set models the vertebrate limbic system. Previous studies indicated that KIV is able to provide a control algorithm for navigation and decision-making for autonomous mobile agents. In this work we use Hilbert transform to capture global synchronized spatio-temporal patterns of amplitude modulation in KIV. We identify phase transition in the simulated amygdala and show that it shares several important features of EEC signals.
494	dynamical	2004	Weiskopf, DA	The place of time in cognition	BRITISH JOURNAL FOR THE PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	Dynamical systems theorists (dynamicists) allege that symbolic models of cognition are essentially incomplete because they fail to capture the temporal properties of mental processing. I present two possible interpretations of the dynamicists' argument from time and show that neither one is successful. The disagreement between dynamicists and symbolic theorists rests not on temporal considerations per se, but on differences over the multiple realizability of cognitive states and the proper explanatory goals of psychology. The negative arguments of dynamicists against symbolic models fail, and it is doubtful whether pursuing dynamicists' explanatory goals will lead to a robust psychological theory.
495	dynamical	2004	Barandiaran, X	Behavioral adaptive autonomy. A milestone on the alife route to AI?	ARTIFICIAL LIFE IX	While central to robotics, biology and cognitive science, the concept of autonomy remains still difficult to make operative in the realm of Alife simulation models of cognitive agents. Its deep significance as a transition concept between life and cognition (a milestone on the Alife route to AI) remains obscured in the intricate relation between metabolic/constructive processes and behavioral adaptive processes in living systems. Within a naturalized and biologically inspired dynamical approach to cognition a definition of behavioral adaptive autonomy is provided: homeostatic maintenance of essential variables under viability constraints through self-modulating behavioral coupling with the environment, hierarchically decoupled from metabolic (constructive) processes. This definition allows for a naturalized notion of behavioral adaptive functionality (that defines a proper level of modelling within Alife), structurally and interactively emergent: the mapping of the agent-environment system's state space trajectories into the viability subspace of,the essential variables of the organism.
496	dynamical	2003	Tani, J	Symbols and dynamics in embodied cognition: Revisiting a robot experiment	ANTICIPATORY BEHAVIOR IN ADAPTIVE LEARNING SYSTEMS: FOUNDATIONS, THEORIES, AND SYSTEMS	This paper introduces novel analyses that clarify why the dynamical systems approach is essential for studies of embodied cognition by revisiting author's prior robot experiment studies. Firstly, we argue that the symbol grounding problems as well as the "situatedness" problems should be the consequences of lacking a shared metric space for the interactions between the higher cognitive levels based on symbol systems and the lower sensory-motor levels based on analog dynamical systems. In our prior studies it was proposed to employ recurrent neural networks (RNNs) as adaptive dynamical systems for implementing the top-down cognitive processes by which it is expected that dense interactions can be made between the cognitive and the sensory-motor levels. Our mobile robot experiments in prior works showed that the acquired internal models embedded in the RNN is naturally situated to the physical environment by means of entrainment between the RNN and the environmental dynamics. In the current study, further analysis was conducted on the dynamical structures obtained in the experiments, which turned out to clarify the essential differences between the conventional symbol systems and its equivalence realized in the adaptive dynamical systems.
497	dynamical	2003	Tschacher, W; Scheier, C	The interactional approach to cognitive science: Concepts, methods, and implications for psychology	ZEITSCHRIFT FUR PSYCHOLOGIE	Since the advent of the cognitive shift, a close association between psychology and the advances in computer technology and artificial intelligence research has evolved. According to the 'computational' symbol processing approach, cognition consists of a series of, usually sequential, processing stages. Between the perception and ensuing action, input is processed by higher cognitive functions, such as categorization, memory, and planning. These cognitive functions are conceived as independent modules lacking a direct interface with the environment. This approach is criticized due to its inherent fundamental problems. Alternative research programs, such as embodied cognitive science, primarily address the issues of situated cognition, i.e. cognition is viewed as originating from the interaction of body and environment. Novel methods of this 'new AI' encompass robotics and the use of autonomous agents. It is investigated here which implications for psychology may arise. A theoretical conceptualization of autonomous agents based on dynamical systems theory and synergetics is outlined. Within this interactional context, the cognitive system is conceived as a complex system comprising numerous sensorimotor loops; coherent and adaptive perception-action processes emerge from the influence of affordances. Examples cited from the field of applied psychology indicate that these perspectives lead to the formulation of new research questions and reinterpretation of empirical findings.
498	dynamical	1999	Temprado, JJ; Laurent, M	Perceptuo-motor coordination in sport: Current trends and controversies	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	In the last decade, the number of papers devoted to motor coordination has considerably increased. For a long rime, the theoretical constructs proposed to explain the mechanisms subserving movement coordination in human and animal have been built exclusively on the hypothesis of the existence of motor programs or hard-wired central pattern generators (CPG) stored in the nervous system. Recently, the hypothesis that "coordinative structures" which could be temporarily assembled as a function of task specific constraints has been related to a shift in interest towards the identification of general (abstracts) principles subserving "selective" elaboration of particular modes of coordination rather than others. In such a context, it seems to us logical and useful to dedicate a special issue of IJSP to motor coordination owing to the tight link between motor coordination and sporting skills. The contributions that we have chosen aim to elucidate the mechanisms subserving the production of three types of coordination mainly encountered in sport contexts: subject-environment coordination multi limb coordination and between-subject coordination. The authors have been invited to base their contributions using, in part, their recent works but also using a large review of literature in the domain of interest. Six main points were tackled by the contributors: The role of task constraints in the emergence of invariants in self-timing interceptive tasks The dynamic concepts and tools to analyse hand-ball trajectories coordination in self-paced timing tasks The continuous regulation through perception-action coupling in coordination between subject and environment A dynamical systems theory approach of acquisition of complex inter-limb and whole-body coordination in sport (How) does cognition work in the self-organized dynamics? Between people coordination in sport.
499	dynamical	1998	Davids, K; Bennett, S	The dynamical hypothesis: The role of biological constraints on cognition	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	For the dynamical hypothesis to be defended as a viable alternative to a computational perspective an natural cognition, the role of biological constraints needs to be considered. This task requires a detailed understanding of the structural organization and function of the dynamic nervous system, as well as a theoretical approach that grounds cognitive activity within the constraints of organism and ecological context.
500	dynamical	1997	Horgan, T; Tienson, J	Precis of Connectionism and the Philosophy of Psychology	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Connectionism was explicitly put forward as an alternative to classical cognitive science. The questions arise: how exactly does connectionism differ from classical cognitive science, and how is it potentially better The classical ''rules and representations'' conception of cognition is that cognitive transitions are determined by exceptionless rules that apply to the syntactic structure of symbols. Many philosophers have seen connectionism as a basis for denying structured symbols. We, on the other hand, argue that cognition is too rich and flexible to be simulable by the exceptionless representation-level rules that classicism requires. However, this very richness of cognition requires syntactically structured representations-what philosophers call a language of thought. The natural mathematical characterization of neural networks comes from the theory of dynamical systems. We propose that the mathematics of dynamical systems, not the mathematics of algorithms, holds the key to how cognitive structure and cognitive processes can be realized in the physical structure and processes of a network.
501	ecological	1997	Young, MF; Kulikowich, JM; Barab, SA	The unit of analysis for situated assessment	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	We begin with a discussion of contemporary approaches to assessment highlighting their reliance on a static, linear model of knowledgeable performance. Next we describe an ecological psychology approach to problem solving. Then, we propose the adoption of an agent-environment interaction as the unit of analysis. We continue by describing the problem-solving process from an ecological psychology perspective, to clarify the ''intentional unit''. We close with a discussion of functional validity, the value added by access to assessment information during the problem-solving process.
502	ecological	1995	RIZZO, TA; CORSARO, WA	SOCIAL SUPPORT PROCESSES IN EARLY-CHILDHOOD FRIENDSHIP - A COMPARATIVE-STUDY OF ECOLOGICAL CONGRUENCES IN ENACTED SUPPORT	AMERICAN JOURNAL OF COMMUNITY PSYCHOLOGY	Examined congruences between children's friendships and classroom social ecologies in three distinct settings, and poses that such congruences or social adaptations are aptly characterized as a process of enacted social support; i.e., an interpersonal transaction involving the reduction or evasion of stress. Data were derived from Corsaro's recent ethnographics of children's friendship and peer culture in a University Preschool (Corsaro, 1985) and Head Start center (Corsaro, 1994), and from Rizzo's (1989) ethnography of friendship development among first-grade children. Despite vast differences across settings, the nature and activities of children's friendships appeared consistently linked with specific organizational features in their life-worlds and in this way may constitute significant interpersonal and individual adaptations to that world. In this view, friendship is best seen not as a static entity which children appropriate in a consistent fashion, but as a general and malleable concept which they modify and use in a collaborative fashion to address shared psychosocial concerns. Findings are related to research on the link between perceived and enacted support, and on the interplay between relational and social support processes.
503	ecological	1992	KREPPNER, K	STERN,WILLIAM,L., 1871-1938 - A NEGLECTED FOUNDER OF DEVELOPMENTAL-PSYCHOLOGY	DEVELOPMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	William Stern was born in 1871 in Berlin, Germany, and died in 1938 in Durham, North Carolina.  Educated at Berlin University, he developed very early a theoretical view to overcome the fundamental split in the academic psychology of his time, that between elementarism and wholism on the one hand and environmentalism and nativism on the other.  Besides inventing such well-known concepts as IQ, differential psychology, and the nomothetic-idiographic approach, Stern put much effort into developing a personalistic psychology that emphasized both the individual's active role and the importance of context in development.  This article focuses on Stern's main contributions to developmental psychology:  the activity-reactivity tension in the developing individual; the concept of proximal space, Stern's idea of the location of exchange between the person and the environment; and an alternative conception of children's egocentrism.  Parallels to today's concepts are drawn.
504	ecological	2011	Stelma, J	An ecological model of developing researcher competence: the case of software technology in doctoral research	INSTRUCTIONAL SCIENCE	This paper presents an ecological model of developing researcher competence, with a particular focus on doctoral students' use of research software. The model extends on theoretical work done by Young et al. (Instructional Science 30(1): 47-63, 2002), modelling the intentional dynamics of technological learning contexts. The development of the ecological model is linked to existing ways of understanding the doctoral experience. This includes the recent emphasis on pedagogy and learning, as well as different conceptualisations of context. The experiences of three doctoral student informants are used to exemplify aspects of the ecological model. A description of an e-learning resource, designed to support Education doctoral students' use of research software, illustrates a concrete pedagogical contribution of the model. The paper concludes with a more general discussion of contributions of the model to the field of ecological psychology and the literature on doctoral education.
505	ecological	2011	Garcia-Gonzalez, L; Araujo, D; Carvalho, J; Iglesias, D	AN OVERVIEW OF THEORIES AND RESEARCH METHODS ON DECISION MAKING IN TENNIS	REVISTA DE PSICOLOGIA DEL DEPORTE	In this theoretical and methodological review of decision making in tennis, we describe some of the explanatory theories of the decisional process by using two approaches: cognitive psychology and ecological psychology. Within the former approach, based on models of information processing, we focus on the importance of visual and perceptual behaviour as mediators of anticipation and decision-making skills in tennis, as well as related concepts such as attention and visual acuity. Subsequently, we explain other cognitive theories based on mental representations and the development of different types of knowledge and memory as a central and decisive component in decision making. The latter approach describes decision making on the basis of ecological psychology, using a decision making approach to the ecological dynamics, heightening the importance of the setting and constraints and understanding tennis as a non-linear, dynamic and self-organized system. We discuss various methodological approaches for evaluating decisions in tennis, regardless of the framework that sustains them. We present different ways of evaluating the decision-making process by analysing verbal protocols and questionnaires, observational analysis, kinematic variables analysis and perceptive analysis. Finally, we conclude by presenting the need to overcome several limitations and study decision making in a holistic manner in which decision making is linked directly to game action.
506	ecological	2004	De Laplante, K	Toward a more expansive conception of ecological science	BIOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY	There are two competing conceptions of the nature and domain of ecological science in the popular and academic literature, an orthodox conception and a more expansive conception. The orthodox conception conceives ecology as a natural biological science distinct from the human social sciences. The more expansive conception views ecology as a science whose domain properly spans both the natural and social sciences. On the more expansive conception, non-traditional ecological disciplines such as "ecological psychology", " ecological anthropology" and " ecological economics" may legitimately be regarded as sub-disciplines of ecology, and the practitioners of such disciplines as ecologists. The orthodox-expansionist issue is significant both for the practice of ecology and for the self-identity of the philosophy of ecology. I argue in favour of the expansionist conception of ecology on general conceptual grounds, and by developing the case for one particular non-traditional ecological discipline, ecological psychology.
507	ecological	2004	Holmes, JG	The benefits of abstract functional analysis in theory construction: The case of interdependence theory	PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	In this article I argue for the benefits of an abstract functional analysis in theory construction, suggesting that tin understanding of the nature of situations of interdependence will provide theoretical insights into basic processes in interpersonal relations. That is, mechanisms and basic processes such as social cognition are best understood by describing their functional relation to the social problems with which they were designed to cope, rather than studying them in their own right in isolation from the purpose they serve. I discuss the tenets of ecological psychology, the scientific philosophy underpinning this way of thought. I then link this approach to the development of my own theoretical ideas on trust in close relationships, providing a description of how a functional analysis rooted in the assumptions of interdependence theory shaped the questions I posed and the answers to which I was drawn.
508	ecological	2003	Chemero, A; Klein, C; Cordeiro, W	Events as changes in the layout of affordances	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In a target article that appeared in Ecological Psychology, Stoffregen (2000a) questioned the possibility of ecological event perception research. This article describes experiments performed to examine the perception of the disappearance of gap-crossing affordances, a variety of event as defined by Chemero (2000). We found that participants reliably perceive both gap-crossing affordances and the disappearance of gap-crossing affordances. Our findings provide empirical evidence in favor of understanding events as changes in the layout of affordances, shoring up event perception research in ecological psychology.
509	ecological	2013	Heft, H	An Ecological Approach to Psychology	REVIEW OF GENERAL PSYCHOLOGY	Even though the term "ecology" was introduced into scientific discourse in the 1860s, and by century's end much of experimental psychology had embraced an evolutionary perspective, it took more than another half century before proposals for an ecological psychology began to appear. Even so, ecological psychology was marginali7ed from the mainstream of the discipline, and it remains so today. This disjunction between psychology's embrace of evolutionary theory and its resistance to ecological thinking can be explained, in large part, historically. It was Herbert Spencer's evolutionary framework, that assumes an environment-mind dichotomy, which was embraced by most early psychologists, and its influence remains today. A Darwinian perspective, in contrast, stresses the activity of an organism in the context of the dynamic mutual relations of its econiche. At the heart of Darwinian thinking, and in turn ecological psychology, are dynamic organism-environment relations, functionally meaningful environmental properties, as well as change and variation. An ecological psychology also recognizes that humans, like other living things, adapt to their econiche, in part, by altering it and thereby modifying the econiche's functional properties. The human econiche, in particular, is characterized by functionally significant, socially normative meanings owing to the sociocultural systems that naturally stem from the character of hominid evolution.
510	ecological	2007	Baron, RM	Situating coordination and cooperation between ecological and social psychology	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The major thrust of this analysis is to demonstrate the value of making ecological psychology more social while recognizing that for this to occur, social psychology must become more ecological in the sense that its key concepts must be treated in an embodied manner. I elaborate these propositions by focusing on establishing differences between coordination and cooperation. I then explore a range of relationships between them from a social psychological perspective. To accomplish this integration, which uses the commitment to reciprocity as a joint organizing principle, I use three complementary models-dynamical systems, effectivities-affordances, and a role-rule model of social commitment. Key aspects of the analysis involve (1) elaborating the meaning of Turvey's (1990) proper-relations view of coordination and (2) demonstrating the particular relevance of roles and trust as unifying concepts. From this perspective, coordinations occur between roles, rather than individuals, at the level of team play. Team play, in turn, is shown to depend on trust. And trust, in turn, is related to perceptions of dependability, thereby illustrating a critical intersection of ecological and social psychology.
511	ecological	2007	Hodges, BH; Baron, RM	On making social psychology more ecological and ecological psychology more social	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
512	ecological	2002	Ruble, LA; Scott, MM	Executive functions and the natural habitat behaviors of children with autism	AUTISM	Research suggests that impairments in executive functions play a role in the cognitive deficit in autism. Possible autism-specific impairments include an inability to engage in goal-directed behaviors and adjust behaviors given environmental demands. What has been described as executive functions is based largely on observations of performance in the laboratory rather than in natural settings. An ecological method first described by Barker and Wright and adapted by Scott was used to assess the patterns of goal-directed behaviors of eight children with autism and eight chronological and mental age comparable children with Down syndrome. Quantitative and qualitative features of naturalistic behaviors were collected, and coded using previously described categories of children's behavior. Results indicated that children with autism exhibited shorter and less overlapping goal-directed behaviors. These data suggest a cognitive difference rather than developmental delay, and lend support for impaired executive functions in autism. Practical implications for educators and caregivers are discussed.
513	ecological	1997	Ingvaldsen, RP; Whiting, HTAJ	Modern views on motor skill learning are not 'representative'!	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Approaches to the explanation of (motor) behaviour deriving from basic Cybernetic principles are contrasted with that based on Skinner's principle of operant conditioning. The reliance of the former on systems of representation (comparators, transducers, schemas etc.), not open to observation, is shown to give rise to a number of theoretical and applied problems. While Skinner's approach is shown to avoid such assumptions it is, in turn? limited in the explanations it provides for behavioural change by its undue emphasis on why things are done at the expense of how they are done. It is argued that recent developments in Ecological Psychology, particularly dynamical systems approaches, provide novel solutions to the question of how things are done but, in so doing, lose track of the why. In spite of the limitations of either perspective on its own, there does seem to be sufficient (fundamental) communality and complementarity to provide the basis for a rapprochement that can lead to a better understanding of behaviour in general and motor behaviour in particular. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.
514	ecological	2014	Proctor, RW; Miles, JD	Does the Concept of Affordance Add Anything to Explanations of Stimulus-Response Compatibility Effects?	PSYCHOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MOTIVATION, VOL 60	The concept of affordance has been increasingly applied to stimulus response compatibility effects over the past 25 years, for which most explanations have been from an information-processing perspective. We consider affordance accounts offered from the ecological perception approach associated with J. J. Gibson and from the information-processing approach (which we call representational affordance accounts). With regard to the latter, we discuss whether any value is gained by incorporating a concept from one worldview (ecological psychology) into explanations within another worldview (information processing). We discuss shortcomings of the representational affordance approach in general, including lack of clear justification and definition for the concept of affordance representation, and critically evaluate several lines of research that have been interpreted as support for specific affordances. We conclude that there is little evidence to justify application of the concept of affordance to laboratory studies of stimulus response compatibility effects, either in its ecological form or when it is divorced from direct perception and instead paired with a representational/computational approach.
515	ecological	2013	Cowley, S; Nash, L	Language, interactivity and solution probing: repetition without repetition	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	Recognition of the importance of autopoiesis to biological systems was crucial in building an alternative to the classic view of cognitive science. However, concepts like structural coupling and autonomy are not strong enough to throw light on language and human problem solving. The argument is presented though a case study where a person solves a problem and, in so doing relies on non-local aspects of the ecology as well as his observer's mental domain. Like Anthony Chemero we make links with ecological psychology to emphasize how embodiment draws on cultural resources as people concert thinking, action and perception. We trace this to human interactivity or sense-saturated coordination that renders possible language and human forms of cognition: it links human sense-making to historical experience. People play roles with natural and cultural artifacts as they act, animate groups and live through relationships drawing on language that is, at once, artificial and natural. Thus, while constrained by wordings, interactivity is able to fine-tune what we do with action-perception loops. Neither language nor human problem solving reduce to biological sense-making.
516	ecological	2004	Coss, RG; Charles, EP	The role of evolutionary hypotheses in psychological research: Instincts, affordances, and relic sex differences	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Properly formed and properly used evolutionary hypotheses invalidate most common criticisms and must be judged, like other hypotheses in science, through their ability to be theoretically and empirically progressive. Well-formed hypotheses incorporate established evolutionary theory with evidence of actual historical conditions. A complex, multifaceted hypothesis can predict patterns of phenotypic variation that would make sense if the hypothesis is true, but be unlikely if it is false. This approach to evolutionarily guided research is illustrated via the sexual-dinichism hypothesis, which proposes historical niche divergence between the sexes during which females could still make adaptive use of trees, but larger males could not. This has led to the investigation of several traits in modern children, where evidence for predicted sex differences in behavior were discovered. We find the objections of critics (e.g., Burton, this issue) to be appropriate for criticizing post hoc evolutionary explanations and perhaps poorly developed hypotheses, but not well-formed and properly used theories. We hold that evolutionary theories are an essential part of psychology in general and ecological psychology in particular.
517	ecological	2001	Ruble, LA	Analysis of social interactions as goal-directed behaviors in children with autism	JOURNAL OF AUTISM AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISORDERS	An ecological psychology framework that considers the intentions of the child within the child's own social context was used to study the complexity of social interactions of 16 children with autism or Down syndrome. Children were observed in their homes and behaviors were recorded. Records were then analyzed by dividing behavior based on the children's own goals. Goal-directed behaviors were then categorized. Statistical analyses revealed similar social contexts and opportunities to receive bids from others for both groups. Differences in the frequencies and complexities of children's behaviors depended on behavioral intent. Socially intended behaviors were less frequent, less self-initiated, and less complex in children with autism. These findings are discussed as problems of attention and executive function, because social behaviors were more likely to occur secondarily, within the context of another ongoing behavior.
518	ecological	1988	LANG, A	PSYCHOLOGYS NEED FOR THE COPERNICAN TURN - TOWARDS AN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY OF DEVELOPMENT	SCHWEIZERISCHE ZEITSCHRIFT FUR PSYCHOLOGIE-REVUE SUISSE DE PSYCHOLOGIE	0
519	ecological	1979	GREENBERG, CI	TOWARD AN INTEGRATION OF ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL-PSYCHOLOGY - UNDERMANNING THEORY, ORGANIZATION SIZE, AND JOB-ENRICHMENT	ENVIRONMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY AND NONVERBAL BEHAVIOR	0
520	ecological	2013	Millar, SK; Oldham, ARH; Renshaw, I	Interpersonal, Intrapersonal, Extrapersonal? Qualitatively Investigating Coordinative Couplings between Rowers in Olympic Sculling	NONLINEAR DYNAMICS PSYCHOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES	Coordinative couplings are commonly classified as interpersonal and intrapersonal. Interpersonal coordination is normally thought of as between organisms but a subset can also be considered where the co-actors movements are coupled to an environmental rhythm. This can be termed extrapersonal coordination. This study explores how coordination is achieved in a situation that demands that at least one actor makes use of extrapersonal sources. In this case multi-seat rowing, where one actor cannot see the other one behind them. A qualitative approach using experiential knowledge from expert rowers (N=9) and coaches (N=4) was used to examine how interpersonal coordination was achieved and maintained in 2 person rowing boats. It was reported that where possible, both rowers coordinated their movements by coupling with an invariant provided by the boat. This invariant is underpinned by perception of water flow past the boat; which is in turn used to determine changes in acceleration "rowing with the boat." Bow seat also identified the rower in front and stroke seat identified the looming of the stern as viable alternative sources for coupling.
521	ecological	2012	Diaz, A; Barrientos, A; Jacobs, DM; Travieso, D	Action-contingent vibrotactile flow facilitates the detection of ground level obstacles with a partly virtual sensory substitution device	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This research considers a sensory substitution device that allows the exploration of the environment through normal walking, leaning and standing. The device includes an array of 24 coin motors placed vertically on the torso, with the intensity of vibration of each motor being a function of the distance to the first-encountered object. Thresholds were determined for the detection of ground-level obstacles (raised target platforms). On average, blindfolded participants were able to detect platforms with heights of 9 to 17 cm, but the thresholds differed for different experimental conditions. Experiment 1 showed that the detection threshold is lower for use with exploratory movements than for use without exploratory movements. Experiments 2 and 3 compared dynamic groups, who made exploratory movements and received vibrotactile flow contingent on their movements, with yoked groups, who received the same vibrotactile flow as the dynamic groups independently of their own movements. The detection thresholds were lower for the dynamic groups than for the yoked groups, meaning that the contingency of vibrotactile flow on exploratory movements is important beyond a higher-order vibrotactile flow by itself. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
522	ecological	2012	Jayawickreme, E; Di Stefano, P	How Can We Study Heroism? Integrating Persons, Situations and Communities	POLITICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Heroisman individual's commitment to a noble purpose, usually aimed at furthering the welfare of others, and involving the willingness to accept the consequences of achieving that purposehas received little attention from political psychologists, even though a person is arguably as liable to act heroically as she is to act in a morally reprehensible manner. Specifically, important questions remain in how heroes can be identified beforehand and how such behavior can be successfully studied and promoted. We posit that recent work in genocide studies, positive psychology, personality psychology, ecological psychology, and moral psychology provides new and promising directions for better understanding heroic behavior. These developments can provide the tools for understanding the complex interplay of factorsincluding traits, situations, and communal beliefsmotivating heroic behavior.
523	ecological	2011	Brinkmann, S	Dewey's neglected psychology: Rediscovering his transactional approach	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Unlike his ideas about education and philosophy, John Dewey's psychology has been largely neglected. This article begins the rediscovery of his transactional psychology by seeking a synthesizing reading of those of his works that pertain to psychology. The article first outlines his transactional approach and also his metapsychology, which conceived of psychology as involved in the constitution of its own subject matter. Then some central psychological concepts such as habit, thinking, self, mind, meaning, and consciousness are explained within the transactional framework, and some similarities are highlighted between Dewey's psychology and ecological psychology. It is argued that Dewey's psychology is still very relevant in the 21st century.
524	ecological	2011	Withagen, R; Caljouw, SR	Aging affects attunement in perceiving length by dynamic touch	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	Earlier studies have revealed age-dependent differences in perception by dynamic touch. In the present study, we examined whether the capacity to learn deteriorates with aging. Adopting an ecological approach to learning, the authors examined the process of attunement-that is, the changes in what informational variable is exploited. Young and elderly adults were trained to perceive the lengths of unseen, handheld rods. It was found that the capacity to attune declines with aging: Contrary to the young adults, the elderly proved unsuccessful in learning to detect the specifying informational variables. The fact that aging affects the capacity to attune sets a new line of research in the study of perception and perceptual-motor skills of elderly. The authors discuss the implications of their findings for the ongoing discussions on the ecological approach to learning.
525	ecological	2011	Fowler, CA; Hodges, BH	Dynamics and Languaging: Toward an Ecology of Language	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce the second of 2 special issues of Ecological Psychology that present papers from a conference, "Grounding Language in Perception and (Inter) action," held at Gordon College in June 2009. The articles in this issue situate the study of language use in two kinds of context that are central to an understanding of "languaging" activities in the social settings in which they occur. The first is the context of dynamical systems theory. Wallot and Van Orden show how a dynamical systems approach can illuminate language use as the intentional and creative activity that it is. Cowley and Thibault illustrate the distributed language approach. Cowley follows Gibson (1979/1986) in comparing language understanding to picture perception. Thibault illustrates the wholly embedded nature of language use in an evocative example of 2 boys offering a description of aliens they have learned about in a story. All of the contributors emphasize language as embodied social action deeply embedded in the social contexts of talking. The articles in this issue and its predecessor, Ecological Psychology 22(4), offer valuable insights for development of an ecological theory of language use. Gibson claims that the information available to perceptual systems of different species is specific to environmental events and therefore it is not arbitrary .... Dialogically coordinated utterance activity between individuals in talk is an extension of this fundamental principle, not something that is completely different. (Thibault, this issue, p. 220)
526	ecological	2010	Chandrasekharan, S; Osbeck, L	Rethinking Situatedness Environment Structure in the Time of the Common Code	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Common coding proposes a shared representation in the brain between perception, execution, and imagination of movement. this neural-level representation is considered to support a "direct activation" of action by perception/imagination of movement at the behavioral level. We examine how this two-tier model, where a representation at the neural level supports "direct activation" at the behavioral level, relates to the notion of situatedness-the real-time access and use of environment structure for cognition. reviewing four leading environment-oriented approaches to cognition (ecological psychology, situated action, distributed cognition, and ecological rationality), we show that the access and use of the environment structures proposed by three of these approaches require a mechanism that supports both representations and direct access. We argue that the two-tier common coding model provides such an integrated mechanism, and, further, it extends and refines the notion of direct perception.
527	ecological	2006	Wells, AJ	In defense of mechanism	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	In Life Itself and in Essays on Life Itself, Robert Rosen (1991, 2000) argued that machines were, in principle, incapable of modeling the defining feature of living systems, which he claimed to be the existence of closed causal loops. Rosen's argument has been used to support critiques of computational models in ecological psychology. This article shows that Rosen's attack on mechanism is fundamentally misconceived. It is, in fact, of the essence of a mechanical system that it contains closed causal loops. Moreover, Rosen's epistemology is based on a strong form of indirect realism and his arguments, if correct, would call into question some of the fundamental principles of ecological psychology.
528	ecological	2002	Kruger, N; Ackermann, M; Sommer, G	Accumulation of object representations utilising interaction of robot action and perception	KNOWLEDGE-BASED SYSTEMS	We introduce a robotic-vision system which is able to extract object representations autonomously utilising a tight interaction of visual perception and robotic action within a perception action cycle [Ecological Psychology 4 (1992) 121; Algebraic Frames for the Perception and Action Cycle, 1997, 1]. Controlled movement of the object grasped by the robot enables us to compute the transformations of entities which are used to represent aspects of objects and to find correspondences of entities within an image sequence. A general accumulation scheme allows to acquire robust information from partly missing information extracted from single frames of an image sequence. Here we use this scheme with a preprocessing stage in which 3D-line segments are extracted from stereo images. However. the accumulation scheme can be used with any kind of preprocessing as long as the entities used to represent objects can be brought to correspondence by certain equivalence relations such as 'rigid body motion'. We show that an accumulated representation can be applied within a tracking algorithm. The accumulation scheme is an important module of a vision based robot system on which we are currently working. In this system, objects are planned to be represented by different visual and tactile entities. The object representations are going to be learned autonomously. We discuss the accumulation scheme in the context of this project. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
529	ecological	1996	Adam, JJ; Paas, FGWC; Buekers, MJ; Wuyts, IJ; Spijkers, WAC; Wallmeyer, P	Perception-action coupling in choice reaction time tasks	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	This study investigates choice reaction time latencies in three kinds of stimulus-response ensembles. That is, using a four-choice reaction time task, three different types of responses (i.e., a pointing, finger-lift, or vocal response), were mapped onto the same spatial stimuli. Results show that reaction time of the more natural (i.e., affordance compatible) pointing response is more than 100 ms shorter than that of the more artificial finger and vocal responses. More critically, however, finger and vocal responses show striking serial position effects while latency of the pointing response is independent of target position. This latter outcome is interpreted as being consistent with the view that the specific nature of the stimulus-response relationship may determine whether an intermediate, stimulus-response translation, stage is needed to link perception and action, or that it is bypassed, allowing direct perception-action routines to guide performance. This interpretation is compatible with the idea that the information-processing and the ecological frameworks are not mutually exclusive but complementary in that they address different kinds of perception-action phenomena.
530	ecological	2015	McIlroy, RC; Stanton, NA	Ecological Interface Design Two Decades On: Whatever Happened to the SRK Taxonomy?	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON HUMAN-MACHINE SYSTEMS	Since first receiving attention in the literature almost 25 years ago, ecological interface design has been applied to a wide variety of man-machine systems across a range of domains. The design framework has its theoretical basis in Gibsonian ecological psychology, and its founding principles draw heavily on Jens Rasmussen's skills, rules, and knowledge (SRK) taxonomy. This paper presents a comprehensive review of the framework's applications since Vicente and Rasmussen's 1992 seminal article detailing the theoretical foundations of the method. There is variation in terms of both the use of the two fundamental components of the method as it was first described, and how it has been supplemented with other phases of the cognitive work analysis; this review highlights these variations with regard to how the design framework has been applied and how these applications have been reported in the literature. The importance of the SRK taxonomy to the framework is specifically discussed following the finding that 40% of reviewed applications do not cite this component despite its centrality to ecological interface design. Attention is drawn to the method's flexibility and adaptability, to its contribution to the content and form of an interface, and a point is made about the importance of being clear and consistent when reporting how the method has been applied and, where appropriate, adapted.
531	ecological	2012	Hodges, BH; Steffensen, SV; Martin, JE	Caring, conversing, and realizing values: new directions in language studies	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Language serves many functions for humans, but three of the most important are coordination, learning, and friendship. All of those functions were well served by the conversations from which this special issue emerged, a conference, "Grounding language in perception and (inter) action", held at Gordon College in June 2009. The conference brought together researchers primarily from three research traditions, dynamical systems theory, distributed language, and ecological psychology, and each of these perspectives is reviewed and illustrated in this special issue. The particular focus of this issue, though, is the role of conversations in humans caring for each other and the ecosystems of which they are a part. Emergency medical care, parents and children playing, and students learning a second language, are among the contexts of caring considered. Also considered are ways in which symbol systems emerge, ways in which language extends and alters perception-action systems, and ways in which infant-caregiver relations (i.e., first friendships) are constituted. The various articles explore how language is "situated, culturally embodied, emergent, and distributed" (Zukow-Goldring, this issue); how language is a crucial dimension of the extended phenotype of humans; how language increases our ability to care for each other, our common tasks, and the (real or virtual) ecosystems we inhabit: and how language emerges as we coordinate and share perception and action skills. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
532	ecological	2009	Travieso, D; Jacobs, DM	The Ecological Level of Analysis: Can Neogibsonian Principles be Applied Beyond Perception and Action?	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	Is it useful to apply ecological principles, developed to understand perception and action, in research areas such as social psychology? Charles (Integrative Psychological & Behavioral Sciences 43(1) 53-66 2009) warns ecological psychologists interested in this question that much time and effort can be saved through a backwards extension to or rediscovery of the New Realism tradition. In response, we analyze what ecological psychology risks to lose with such a backwards extension and describe existing extensions of the approach not considered by Charles. According to Charles, New Realism holds that: (1) we experience reality, (2) relations are real, and (3) things are what you see when you see those things. Our arguments originate from a comparison of these principles with six recently described ecological ones: (1) organism-environment systems are the proper units of analysis, (2) environmental realities should be defined at the ecological scale, (3) behavior is emergent and self-organized, (4) perception and action are continuous and cyclic, (5) information is specificational, and (6) perception is of affordances (Richardson et al. 2008).
533	ecological	2009	Charles, E	The (Old) New Realism: What Holt Has to Offer for Ecological Psychology	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	As Ecological Psychology pushes into new areas, success will be made easier by a rediscovery its theoretical history, in particular the "New Realism", lead in part by E. B. Holt. Three New Realists tenants seem particularly relevant: (1) we experience reality, (2) relations are real, and (3) things are what you see when you see those things. Though the two groups differ in terms of their conception of perception, and what can be perceived, their conceptions are related in very insightful ways. Further, the comparison reemphasizes the extent of unique empirical claims ecological psychologists make, and grounds those claims within a larger framework for psychology as a whole. This makes obvious the need for further work on the mathematics of invariants, the physiological mechanisms of information extraction, and the behaviors of perception.
534	ecological	2008	Chan, CC; Ho, WC	An ecological framework for evaluating relationship-functional aspects of youth mentoring	JOURNAL OF APPLIED SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	The present research examined what is necessary to make youth mentoring effective. Central to the discussion is mentee-mentor relationship quality in relation to program effectiveness. Data were drawn from an ongoing youth mentoring program organized in Hong Kong using a conceptual framework derived from ecological psychology to guide analysis. Data analysis followed a multistage process. Quantitative factor analysis was computed to identify the principal components of the mentee-mentor relationship. Then, to explore subjective meanings of the quantitative findings, in-depth interviews were conducted with 48 mentees who were randomly selected from the respondents. Further statistical associations and qualitative categorizations were conducted with this subsample to examine the complex relations between the relationship outcomes and the program (functional) outcomes.
535	ecological	2001	Wolfe, CR	Plant a tree in cyberspace: Metaphor and analogy as design elements in Web-based learning environments	CYBERPSYCHOLOGY & BEHAVIOR	Analogy and metaphor are figurative forms of communication that help people integrate new information with prior knowledge to facilitate comprehension and appropriate inferences. The novelty and versatility of the Web place cognitive burdens on learners that can be overcome through the use of analogies and metaphors. This paper explores three uses of figurative communication as design elements in Web-based learning environments, and provides empirical illustrations of each. First, extended analogies can be used as the basis of cover stories that create an analogy between the learner's position and a hypothetical situation. The Dragonfly Web pages make extensive use of analogous cover stories in the design of interactive decision-making games. Feedback from visitors, patterns of usage, and external reviews provide evidence of effectiveness. A second approach is visual analogies based on the principles of ecological psychology. An empirical example suggests that visual analogies are most effective when there is a one-to-one correspondence between the base and visual target analogs. The use of learner-generated analogies is a third approach. Data from an offline study with undergraduate science students are presented indicating that generating analogies are associated with significant improvements in the ability to place events in natural history on a time line. It is concluded that cyberspace itself might form the basis of the next guiding metaphor of mind.
536	ecological	2015	van Dijk, L; Withagen, R; Bongers, RM	Information without content: A Gibsonian reply to enactivists' worries	COGNITION	In this article, we aim to strengthen the emerging radical, non-representational, approaches to cognitive science by defusing the worries radical enactivists have with the use of information in the ecological approaches - namely the worry that information carries content. We show that Gibson's later use of the concept is meant to allow for a content-less notion of information, but that the language surrounding information in ecological psychology has subsequently slipped into a more cognitivistic vocabulary. We argue that by considering ecological information not to be information about, but information for affordances, the notion of information can be fruitfully applied without invoking notions of content. Gibson's later notion of information for perception, stresses the insight that in ecological theory there is no information in content, but only in use. It is suggested that radical cognition should embrace this notion of information without content, as doing so can help to situate the enactivist's "basic mind" into large and complex scales of coordination. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
537	ecological	2014	Dotov, DG	Putting reins on the brain. How the body and environment use it	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Radical embodied cognitive neuroscience (RECN) will probably rely on dynamical systems theory (DST) and complex systems theory for methods and formalism. Yet, there have been plenty of non-radical neurodynamicists out there for quite some time How much of their work fits with radical embodied cognitive science, what do they need RECN for, and what are the inconsistencies between RECN and established neurodynamics that would have to be resolved? This paper is both theoretical hypothesis and review. First, it provides a brief overview of the typical, purely structural considerations why the central nervous systems (CNS) should be treated as a nonlinear dynamical system and what this entails. The reader will learn about the circular causality enclosing brain and behavior and different attempts to formalize this circularity. Then, three different attempts at linking dynamics and theory of brain function are described in more detail and criticized. A fourth method based on ecological psychology could fix some of the issues that the others encounter. It is argued that studying self-organization of the brain without taking its ecological embedding into account is insufficient. Finally, based on existing theoretical work we propose two roles that the CNS has to be fulfilling in order to allow an animal to behave adequately in its niche. In its first role the CNS has to be enslaved easily by patterns of behavior that guide the animal through its environment. In the second role the brain has to flexibly switch among patterns, what can be called the metastable circuit breaker. The relevance of this idea is supported using certain motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). These symptoms can be explained as consequent to an excessive stability of the (metastable) circuit breaker.
538	ecological	2014	van Dijk, L; Withagen, R	The horizontal worldview: A Wittgensteinian attitude towards scientific psychology	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	Many scientific psychologists (implicitly) adopt a vertical worldview. This worldview assumes a layered supervening ontology and thereby invites a reductionist stance on explanation. In the present article we direct attention to an alternative attitude towards reality, the horizontal worldview. We draw on Wittgenstein as an example of this alternative attitude. In his later writings Wittgenstein showed his readers how to resist the urge to derive underlying principles about reality by tirelessly reorienting inquiry "sideways," to the surrounding circumstances that were excluded from consideration. We go on to identify similar horizontal thinking in scientific psychology and demonstrate its merits by discussing Gibson's approach to visual perception, a Heideggerian approach to skill acquisition, and by discussing psychological traits and the use of concepts. By clarifying the particular surrounding circumstances that a vertical view neglects to consider, a horizontal attitude can render a vertical analysis superfluous.
539	ecological	2011	Shafizadeh, M; McMorris, T; Sproule, J	EFFECT OF DIFFERENT EXTERNAL ATTENTION OF FOCUS INSTRUCTION ON LEARNING OF GOLF PUTTING SKILL	PERCEPTUAL AND MOTOR SKILLS	The effect of different sources of external attentional focus on learning a motor skill was assessed in the present study. 30 students (12 men, 18 women) participated voluntarily and were divided, according to type of external focus, into target, club swing, and target-club swing groups. The task was a golf putting skill. The target focus group attended to the target (hole), the club swing focus group attended to the execution of the club's swing, and the target-club swing focus group attended to both. All participants performed 50 trials of the putting skill in the acquisition phase and 10 trials in the 24-hr. delayed retention phase. The dependent variable was the error in the putting skill measured as the distance from the hole to the ball after each strike. Results showed the target-club swing focus group had better scores in the acquisition and retention phases than the other groups. It was concluded that external focus instruction helped the learners to integrate target cue with action cue and is more effective in skill learning than other external-focus instructions. These results support the claims of ecological psychology theorists concerning the effects of external focus of attention.
540	ecological	2011	Charles, EP	Ecological Psychology and Social Psychology: It is Holt, or Nothing!	INTEGRATIVE PSYCHOLOGICAL AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	What is the greatest contribution that ecological psychologists can offer social psychology? Ideally, ecological psychologists could explain how people directly perceive the unique properties of their social partners. But social partners are distinguished from mundane objects because they possess mental traits, and tradition tells us that minds cannot be seen. When considering the ideal possibility, we reject that doctrine and posit minds as perceivable. For ecological psychology, this entails asserting that minds are the types of things able to structure ambient energy. Contemporary research and theory suggests distinctly ecological ways of attacking this problem, but the problem is not new. Almost 100 years ago, Holt argued for the visibility of minds. Thus when considering these ideas, ecological psychologists face a choice that is at once about their future and their past. Extending ecological psychology's first principles into the social realm, we come to the point where we must either accept or reject Holt's arguments, and the wider context they bring. In doing so, we accept or reject our ability to study the uniquely social.
541	ecological	2010	Petrusz, SC; Turvey, MT	On the Distinctive Features of Ecological Laws	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Ecological psychology is grounded in the assumption of the availability of lawlike regularities in the world as the basis of reliable information for perceiving-acting systems. This article aims to articulate some of the necessary conditions for an account of lawfulness that accommodates ecological theories of perceiving and acting. This attempt considers historically influential accounts of laws but offers modifications of the notions of law and especially of cause that are of greater relevance to the practice of an ecological science. A guiding assumption is that the laws of the animate are the most general. The authors advocate understanding laws in reference to reliable regularities, causes as not being strictly Newtonian in character, and flexibility with respect to certain formal and philosophical commitments.
542	ecological	2009	Hammond, KR; Bateman, RA	Sport Psychology as an instance of Ecological Psychology	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	While the vast majority of publications in sport psychology look inward, in this paper we look outward to examine the relationship of the athlete to her environment. We describe the theoretical foundations and methodological implications of Egon Brunswik's "probabilistic functionalism" and contrast that with the dominant theory and method of psychological research, namely the "rule of one variable". We explain the importance of Brunswik's concept of "representative design" if sport psychologists want to generalize their results from their studies to the competitive environment. We then use examples from the sport of tennis to show how probabilistic functionalism and representative design can he used in studying and training athletes.
543	ecological	2005	Kadar, EE; Effken, JA	From discrete actors to goal-directed actions: Toward a process-based methodology for psychology	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Studying social phenomena is often assumed to be inherently different from studying natural science phenomena. In psychology, this assumption has led to a division of the field into social and experimental domains. The same kind of division has carried over into ecological psychology, despite the fact that Gibson clearly intended his theory for both social and natural phenomena. In this paper, we argue that the social/natural science dichotomy can be derived from a distinction between hermeneutics and science that is deeply rooted in the atomistic, structuralist ontological tradition. We show that, from a process-based perspective, the central questions of hermeneutics (action of an individual within a context of possible actions), ecological psychology (behavior of an organism in an ecological niche) and physics (motion of a particle in a field) share a similar structure. Building on these ideas, we propose a common, process-based methodology for psychology that integrates field theory with insights from quantum mechanics to accommodate traditionally problematic concepts in natural science such as teleology and values. To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, empirical findings on the paradigmatic problem of prospective control (such as gaze control in automobile driving in relation to perceptual tuning) are presented.
544	ecological	2016	Abrahamson, D; Sanchez-Garcia, R	Learning Is Moving in New Ways: The Ecological Dynamics of Mathematics Education	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Whereas emerging technologies, such as touchscreen tablets, are bringing sensorimotor interaction back into mathematics learning activities, existing educational theory is not geared to inform or analyze passages from action to concept. We present case studies of tutor-student behaviors in an embodied-interaction learning environment, the Mathematical Imagery Trainer. Drawing on ecological dynamics-a blend of dynamical-systems theory and ecological psychology-we explain and demonstrate that: (a) students develop sensorimotor schemes as solutions to interaction problems; (b) each scheme is oriented on an attentional anchor-a real or imagined object, area, or other aspect or behavior of the perceptual manifold that emerges to facilitate motor-action coordination; and (c) when symbolic artifacts are introduced into the arena, they may both mediate new affordances for students' motor-action control and shift their discourse into explicit mathematical re-visualization of the environment. Symbolic artifacts are ontological hybrids evolving from things with which you act to things with which you think. Students engaged in embodied-interaction learning activities are first attracted to symbolic artifacts as prehensible environmental features optimizing their grip on the world, yet in the course of enacting the improved control routines, the artifacts become frames of reference for establishing and articulating quantitative systems known as mathematical reasoning.
545	ecological	2015	Meagher, BR; Marsh, KL	Testing an Ecological Account of Spaciousness in Real and Virtual Environments	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	Cognitions about one's physical environment have a clear psychological impact on inhabitants. However, judgments of a setting's spaciousness have been shown to be based not solely on the dimensions of the enclosure but also on a number of seemingly incidental environmental properties. Nevertheless, a theoretical integration and explanation of these various effects has been lacking. Across five experiments conducted in the laboratory and in virtual reality, we test an affordance-based account, which proposes that impressions of spaciousness are influenced by the wealth of behavioral opportunities offered by the environment. These experiments test how the functional arrangement of furniture (Experiments 1 and 2) and the priming of particular behaviors (Experiments 3a, 3b, and 3c) affect perceivers' spatial impressions of the environment. These findings emphasize that cognitions about spaciousness are determined not by a passive calculation of area but are instead tied to its ability to facilitate physical activity.
546	ecological	2014	Cowley, SJ	Linguistic embodiment and verbal constraints: human cognition and the scales of time	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Using radical embodied cognitive science, the paper offers the hypothesis that language is symbiotic: its agent-environment dynamics arise as linguistic embodiment is managed under verbal constraints. As a result, co-action grants human agents the ability to use a unique form of phenomenal experience. In defense of the hypothesis, I stress how linguistic embodiment enacts thinking: accordingly, I present auditory and acoustic evidence from 750 ms of mother-daughter talk, first, in fine detail and, then, in narrative mode. As the parties attune, they use a dynamic field to co-embody speech with experience of wordings. The latter arise in making and tracking phonetic gestures that, crucially, mesh use of artifice, cultural products and impersonal experience. As observers, living human beings gain dispositions to display and use social subjectivity. Far from using brains to "process" verbal content, linguistic symbiosis grants access to diachronic resources. On this distributed-ecological view, language can thus be redefined as: "activity in which wordings play a part."
547	ecological	2013	Cancar, L; Diaz, A; Barrientos, A; Travieso, D; Jacobs, DM	Tactile-Sight: A Sensory Substitution Device Based on Distance-Related Vibrotactile Flow Regular Paper	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ADVANCED ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Sensory substitution is a research field of increasing interest with regard to technical, applied and theoretical issues. Among the latter, it is of central interest to understand the form in which humans perceive the environment. Ecological psychology, among other approaches, proposes that we can detect higher-order informational variables (in the sense that they are defined over substantial spatial and temporal intervals) that specify our interaction with the environment. When using a vibrotactile sensory substitution device, it is reasonable to ask if stimulation on the skin may be exploitable to detect higher-order variables. Motivated by this question, a portable vibrotactile sensory substitution device was built, using distance-based information as a source and driving a large number of vibrotactile actuators (72 in the reported version, 120 max). The portable device was designed to explore real environments, allowing natural unrestricted movement for the user while providing contingent real-time vibrotactile information. Two preliminary experiments were performed. In the first one, participants were asked to detect the time to contact of an approaching ball in a simulated (desktop) environment. Reasonable performance was observed in all experimental conditions, including the one with only tactile stimulation. In the second experiment, a portable version of the device was used in a real environment, where participants were asked to hit an approaching ball. Participants were able to coordinate their arm movements with vibrotactile stimulation in appropriate timing. We conclude that vibrotactile flow can be generated by distance-based activation of the actuators and that this stimulation on the skin allows users to perceive time-to-contact related environmental properties.
548	ecological	2010	Masuta, H; Kubota, N	Perceptual System using Spiking Neural Network for an Intelligent Robot	IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SYSTEMS, MAN AND CYBERNETICS (SMC 2010)	This paper discusses a integrated perceptual system for intelligent control of a service robot. The robot should be able to perceive the environment flexibly to realize intelligent behavior. We focus on the perceptual system based on the perceiving-acting cycle discussed in ecological psychology. We propose a perceptual system composed of the retinal model and the spiking-neural network to realize concept of the perceiving-acting cycle. The proposed method is applied to the robot arm equipped with a 3D-range camera. This proposed method features the robot detects the invariant information of a dish, for example the contrast of a distance Information or a luminance information. As experiments, we discuss about the effectiveness of the proposed method by comparing different input.
549	ecological	2002	Shaw, R	Theoretical hubris and the willingness to be radical: An open letter to James J. Gibson	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	J. J. Gibson's direct perception thesis is the cornerstone of ecological psychology. Not to understand this is not to understand ecological psychology. Beginning in the summer of 1968, when I first met Gibson, and after working with him for the next year at Cornell, I underwent a conversion crisis. I came to appreciate his thesis through a few philosophical insights that I here share with the reader through an open letter to Gibson, where I seek to illuminate the reasons for my conversion from being a Miller-Chomsky psycholinguist and a Piaget devotee to a radical Gibsonian. This conversion has influenced my work even until the present. Indeed, I am still working through its implications in all that I attempt. I share this intimate portrait of my relationship to Gibson and his profound ideas in hope that others who have struggled with his thesis might be helped along their way as I was.
550	ecological	2001	Norman, J	Ecological psychology and the two visual systems: Not to worry!	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Michaels (2000) expressed concerns about the implications of the notion of 2 Visual systems (Milner & Goodale, 1995) for ecological psychology. This leads her to suggest a decoupling of perception and action, by which action is separate from perception. It is suggested that although Michaels noted, on the one hand, that Milner and Goodale's approach to perception is a constructivist one, she mistakenly adopts their view that separates vision for perception from vision for action. An alternative position is presented, based on a recent article (Norman, in press), in which the parallels between the 2 visual systems, dorsal and ventral, and the 2 theoretical approaches, ecological and constructivist, are elucidated. According to this dual-process approach to perception. both systems are perceptual systems. The ecological-dorsal system is the system that picks up information about the ambient environment allowing the organism to negotiate it. It is suggested that this type of perception always processes the relevant information for action and that there is no need to sever the perception-action coupling. Ecological psychology and the 2 visual systems are quite compatible, and there is no need for concern.
551	ecological	1999	Buekers, MJ; Montagne, G; Laurent, M	Is the player in control, or is the control somewhere out of the player?	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORT PSYCHOLOGY	While ecological psychology exerted a strong influence in the field of motor control during the last few decades, the application of its principles in everyday sport practice is still very limited. This observation is rather surprising as the application of these principles might produce important benefits for learning sport skills. The purpose of this review is to take a closer look at how the ecological psychology approach can account for learning sport skills. Experiments on the run-up in long jumping and ball catching are discussed to illustrate the functioning of the perception-action cycle in sport skills. From these observations we will focus on how spatial landmarks operate within this framework, to finally explore how these environmental facilitators might enhance learning.
552	ecological	1991	SOMMER, R; WICKER, AW	GAS STATION PSYCHOLOGY - THE CASE FOR SPECIALIZATION IN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	0
553	ecological	1985	WOHLWILL, JF	MUCHOW,MARTHA, 1892-1933 - HER LIFE, WORK, AND CONTRIBUTION TO DEVELOPMENTAL AND ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	HUMAN DEVELOPMENT	0
554	ecological	2016	van Dijk, L; Withagen, R	Temporalizing agency: Moving beyond on- and offline cognition	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	In this article we reconsider the relation between time and agency that is at the heart of the current distinction between online and offline cognition. Mainstream psychology starts out with an abstract notion of time, in which only the current moment is real. Therefore persisting representations are necessary for agents to make their way across time. We take Gibson and Heidegger to offer a different account of the relation between time and agency. Their theories suggest that, by taking agents in their world as coordinated motion, the need for representations disappears. We extend this picture of human involvement by showing how this can account for the concept of time by retaining its relational, situated structure. Finally, we return to the distinction between on- and offline cognition and show that offline cognition need not be considered a different type of cognition, but only a different mode of coordinating: offline cognition in such a view is not a return to the internal manipulation of content; rather, it is a contentless, unstable mode of coordinating to the world in which the relational constitution of agency falters.
555	ecological	2015	Costall, A; Morris, P	THE "TEXTBOOK GIBSON": The Assimilation of Dissidence	HISTORY OF PSYCHOLOGY	We examine how the textbooks have dealt with one of psychology's most eminent dissidents, James Gibson (1904-1979). Our review of more than a hundred textbooks, dating from the 1950s to the present, reveals fundamental and systematic misrepresentations of Gibson. Although Gibson continues to figure in most of the textbooks, his work is routinely assimilated to theoretical positions he emphatically rejected: cue theory, stimulus-response psychology, and nativism. As Gibson's one-time colleague, Ulric Neisser, pointed out, psychologists are especially prone to trying to understand new proposals "by mapping it on to some existing scheme," and warned that when " an idea is really new, that strategy fails" (Neisser, 1990, p. 749). The "Textbook Gibson" is an example of such a failure, and perhaps also of the more general importance of assimilation-"shadow history"-within the actual history of psychology.
556	ecological	2014	Thomas, BJ; Riley, MA	Remembered Affordances Reflect the Fundamentally Action-Relevant, Context-Specific Nature of Visual Perception	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Ecological psychology suggests the environment is experienced by perceivers in terms of their ability to behave within it-or their affordances. The authors used the remembered-affordance paradigm to evaluate this claim in contrast to an additive model that combined lower-order, action-neutral, perceived properties of the perceiver and environment to compute an affordance. In 2 experiments, participants reported the boundary between actions that were or were not possible (overhead reaching in Experiments 1a and 1b, and minimum aperture pass-through-ability in Experiment 2) while using or not using an implement (a stick). They also reported the length of the implement independent of its use in any action. Reports of stick length were consistently different from action-relevant affordance reports, and the additive model was incapable of accounting for participants' affordance reports. The results are consistent with ecological psychology's claim that affordances are perceived directly and also with embodied and functional approaches to memory, which suggest that the environment is experienced in task-specific and action-relevant terms.
557	ecological	2014	Hodges, BH	Righting language: a view from ecological psychology	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	Scientific models of language have tended to focus on forms deprived of their ecological context: Speaking and listening have been viewed as disembodied and unaddressed. An ecological approach works to return language to its rightful place, as a socially embedded, morally accountable set of activities that are fundamentally dialogical. Language is viewed as a distributed set of meaning-seeking activities that are primarily physical and pragmatic, the function of which is to realize values, including caring for others and self, and the places they inhabit. Psychologically, language is focused in dialogical arrays, which can function as distributed cognitive systems for perceiving, acting, and reasoning. This more distributed, embodied view of linguistic activity draws attention to its systematic, multi-scalar complexity; to its ability to tie its participants to a place, a history, and a way of life; to the frustration and responsibility entailed in speaking and listening; and to the possibility that it is a form of direct acting and perceiving that extends human capabilities by orders of magnitude. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
558	ecological	2013	van der Kamp, J; Withagen, R; de Wit, MM	Cultural and learning differences in the Judd illusion	ATTENTION PERCEPTION & PSYCHOPHYSICS	In the present study, we examined whether individual differences in the perception of illusory Judd drawings point to variability in the pickup of informational variables. Two sources for these individual differences were addressed: culture and learning. East Asian (n = 24) and Western (n = 24) participants made perceptual judgments of the midpoint of the shaft of various Judd figures in a pretest-practice-posttest design. During practice, half of the participants received feedback about the actual midpoint after each trial, while the other half did not receive feedback. The results showed differences among perceivers of different cultures in judging the midpoints of the shafts of Judd figures, particularly with respect to their propensity to improve perceptual accuracy after repeated practice and feedback. For most participants, changes in illusory bias as a consequence of learning were shown to reflect either a change in what informational variable they exploited or a rescaling or calibration of the perception to the informational variable. However, the individual differences in illusory bias related to culture could not be unequivocally attributed to either of these perceptual-learning processes.
559	ecological	2011	Craig, C; Watson, G	An Affordance Based Approach to Decision Making in Sport: Discussing a Novel Methodological Framework	REVISTA DE PSICOLOGIA DEL DEPORTE	Decision making is a fundamental clement of any sport, particularly open, fast, dynamic team sports such as football, basketball and rugby. At the elite level, athletes appear to consistently make good decisions in situations that are highly temporally constrained. To further understand how this is done has been the aim of researchers within the perception-action field for several decades. The purpose of this article is to present novel contributions, both theoretical and methodological, that are pushing the boundaries of this area of research. The theoretical framework (Ecological psychology) within which the work is posited will be described, followed by a description of Virtual Reality (VR) technology and how it relates to the theoretical aims. Finally, an applied example will be summarised in order to demonstrate how the theoretical approach and the methodological approach come together in practice.
560	ecological	2010	Sonesson, G	Semiosis and the elusive final interpretant of understanding	SEMIOTICA	While the conceptual history of the sign, as recounted by John Deely in Four ages of understanding, is immensely enlightening, history is never enough. If, before Augustine, it had occurred to no one that such diverse phenomena as are covered by this term had something in common, and if, in the time of Aquinas, Fonseca, and Poinsot, different usages of the term were in competition, the reason is not simply intellectual confusion, but rather that meaning is of many kinds. In this essay, I have shifted the terrain from socio-history to phylogeny and ontogeny, suggesting that, in the child, as well as in the human species, perception is the primary type of meaning, whereas true signs are acquired much later, followed by signs systems and organism-independent artifacts. The whole point of having a semiotic theory, it is argued, is to be able to account for the differences, and not only the similarities, of different kinds of meaning.
561	ecological	2008	Turvey, MT	Philosophical issues in self-organization as a framework for ecological psychology - Introduction	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
562	ecological	2008	Wagman, JB	Perception-action as reciprocal, continuous, and prospective	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	From the perspective of ecological psychology, perception and action are not separate, linear, and mechanistic processes that refer to the immediate present. Rather, they are reciprocal and continuous and refer to the impending future. Therefore, from the perspective of ecological psychology, delays in perception and action are impossible, and delay compensation mechanisms are unnecessary.
563	ecological	2008	Rome, E; Paletta, L; Sahin, E; Dorffner, G; Hertzberg, J; Breithaupt, R; Fritz, G; Irran, J; Kintzler, F; Lorken, C; May, S; Ugur, E	The MACS project: An approach to affordance-inspired robot control	TOWARDS AFFORDANCE-BASED ROBOT CONTROL	In this position paper, we present an outline of the MACS approach to affordance-inspired robot control. An affordance, a concept from Ecological Psychology, denotes a specific relationship between an animal and its environment. Perceiving an affordance means perceiving an interaction possibility that is specific for the animal's perception and action capabilities. Perceiving an affordance does not include appearance-based object recognition, but rather feature-based perception of object functions. The central hypothesis of MACS is that an affordance-inspired control architecture enables a robot to perceive more interaction possibilities than a traditional architecture that relies on appearance-based object recognition alone. We describe how the concept of affordances can be exploited for controlling a mobile robot with manipulation capabilities. Particularly, we will describe how affordance support can be built into robot perception, how learning mechanisms can generate affordance-like relations, how this affordance-related information is represented, and how it can be used by a planner for realizing goal-directed robot behavior. We present both the MACS demonstrator and simulator, and summarize development and experiments that have been performed so far. By interfacing perception and goal-directed action in terms of affordances, we will provide a new way for reasoning and learning to connect with reactive robot control. We will show the potential of this new methodology by going beyond navigation-like tasks towards goal-directed autonomous manipulation in our project demonstrators.
564	ecological	2007	Shaw, R; Kinsella-Shaw, J	Could optical 'pushes' be inertial forces? A geometro-dynamical hypothesis	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Under various circumstances perceived optical disturbances have been shown to upset an observer's upright posture (e.g., Lee's gliding room), but no principled explanation has yet been proposed that will handle these phenomena. These so-called optical 'pushes' are conveyed by kinematic information but they act on the observer as if they were kinetic forces. Information (geometry and time) and forces (geometry, time, and mass) thus are mismatched in dimensionality-a problem which precludes treating optical pushes explicitly as mathematical functions. Interpreting such apparent forces as cognitive representations of real forces merely exacerbates the problem. Instead an argument is presented that agrees more with ecological psychology's view that such 'forces' must be directly perceived. Specifically, d'Alembert's Principle adopted from classical mechanics provides a way to construe information for optical pushes as functionally equivalent to inertial forces that arise in reaction to impressed forces and thereby resolve the dimensional mismatch problem. Several examples are given to illustrate this approach.
565	ecological	2006	Effken, JA	Improving clinical decision making through ecological interfaces	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Robert E. Shaw's Intentional Dynamics Laboratory was the impetus for considerable applied research that both stimulated and tested Shaw's developing theory. In this article, the author describes the work she and Shaw did together on clinical display design, using this project as a vehicle through which readers may gain a sense of what those who worked in Shaw's laboratory experienced. The article begins with an introduction to the patient safety problem as it relates to clinical display design, reveals the source of the problem as analogous to the central problem in perceptual psychology, then explores how an ecological psychology developed by Gibson and extended by Shaw's intentional dynamics can contribute to a solution. The author then describes how she and her colleagues have applied the ecological approach to clinical display design and the results of that effort.
566	ecological	2001	Pilisuk, M	Ecological psychology, caring, and the boundaries of the person	JOURNAL OF HUMANISTIC PSYCHOLOGY	The central theme of ecological psychology is interdependence or connection that serves to sustain the balance of life on the planet. The lack of interdependent orientation is clearly seen in a report of a comparative risk assessment process used to rank environmental dangers. Combined emphases on self-development and objective indicators give psychology tao little capacity to address ecological concerns. Ecological psychology shares with some indigenous Native American cultures a mode of thought in which interconnection and its psychological counterpart, caring, are predominant. The underlying beliefs of ecological psychology provide a new paradigm in which the work of psychologists can be a constructive response to dire environmental challenges. There is no point in liberating people if the planet cannot sustain their liberated lives, or in saving the planet by disregarding the preciousness of human existence not only to ourselves but to the rest of life on earth.
567	ecological	2001	Effken, J; Kadar, EE	Learning as progressive biasing of a random walk process: Toward an ecological theory of exploratory learning	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	J. J. Gibson initially developed his theory of the perceptual control of action with an eye toward the perceptual control of locomotion. Subsequently, his theory has been generalized to many other tasks. Recent research has shown the importance of perceptual control skills in computer-based cognitive tasks. These results suggest that the problem of computer-interface design may be not only challenging in its own right but also theoretically promising as a way to investigate the exploratory learning of perceptual control skills. To test this premise, we used an existing instructional interface to capture the exploratory activities of novices as they learned to use a computer program. The aim of the research was to test a diffuse-control model of exploratory learning and a new evaluation methodology based on the model. Our results suggest that the model, which is based on ecological psychology principles, enhances our understanding of exploratory learning. Furthermore, the measures derived from the model provide a more detailed analysis of exploratory learning than current measures. Finally, the diffuse control model and its derived measures proved to be an effective way to evaluate computer-interface design.
568	ecological	1998	Carson, RG	Commentary 2: Ecological psychology and movement dynamics: A plea for biological realism	MOTOR BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN SKILL: A MULTIDISCIPLINARY APPROACH	0
569	ecological	1997	Kreppner, K	Cultural psychology and the problem of exchange between individual and environment: Is there a common concept?	CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY	The holistic perspective on the person-context exchange conception present in so many current culture-oriented developmental theories has different roots in the history of European psychology. Here, one school assumed to have contributed to the widening of our understanding of the cultural or environmental influence on individual development is presented in some detail. This school of thinking is compared to another European conceptualization of an integrated view on person-culture exchange (discussed in this issue). Biological, cultural-philosophical and psychological aspects were linked together in a school established at the newly founded university at Hamburg, Germany, during the 1920s and early 1930s. Cooperation by three scientists from different disciplines pushed forward the idea of a holistic concept describing the process of development within context. William Stern, the psychologist, Ernst Cassirer, the cultural philosopher, and Jakob Johannes von Uexkull, the biologist, worked together and successfully developed an integrated perspective on the exchange between the individual and his or her environment. Although never manifest as a 'school' in its own right, it is maintained that the three scientists' interdisciplinary efforts to grasp a holistic explanation of the subject-environment relationship is found in many components remaining in contemporary theories exploring links between individual and environment.
570	ecological	1996	Chan, TC; Shaw, RE	What is ecological psychology?	PSYCHOLOGIA	Ecological psychology comprises two fundamental complementary areas of study: perception and action, as introduced by the American psychologist, J.J. Gibson and the Russian physiologist, Nikolai A. Bernstein, respectively. For Gibson perception is the direct pick-up of invariant information by which animals control their actions to reach environmental goals, not the passive registration of elementary sensations from which experiences are (unconsciously) inferred or computed. Where Gibson rejects the computer metaphor in the study of perception, Bernstein rejects the executive metaphor in the study of action. Both views challenge psychology to develop a functionally integrated organism-environment system, governed by laws, in the place of a psychology of internal states or isolatable faculties, governed by rules. Here the smallest unit of analysis is taken to be the perceiving-acting cycle situated in intentional contexts. The historical motivation of ecological psychology is reviewed and critically discussed.
571	ecological	2015	Hudson, CK; Shen, W	Understaffing: An under-researched phenomenon	ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY REVIEW	Workers often identify understaffing as a major stressor in their work lives. Despite this, relatively little conceptual and empirical work on understaffing exists. This paper describes a new, multidimensional conceptualization of understaffing, specifying that there are three dimensions underlying the understaffing domain: severity of (under)staffing, type of resource shortage, and length of exposure. Drawing upon theory and research on workplace demands and self-regulation, we further argue that different types of understaffing are differentially related to workplace outcomes. After specifying what understaffing is, we then compare and contrast understaffing with conceptually similar or related constructs in the industrial-organizational/organizational behavior (IO/OB) literature to assist in explaining what understaffing is not. Finally, we address practical issues in the study and measurement of understaffing. Implications for future research and theory are discussed.
572	ecological	2015	Beckes, L; IJzerman, H; Tops, M	Toward a radically embodied neuroscience of attachment and relationships	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Attachment theory (Bowlby, 1969/1982) posits the existence of internal working models as a foundational feature of human bonds. Radical embodied approaches instead suggest that cognition requires no computation or representation, favoring a cognition situated in a body in an environmental context with affordances for action (Cheaters, 2009; Barrett, 2011; Wilson and Golonka, 2013; Casasanto and Lupyan, 2015). We explore whether embodied approaches to social soothing, interpersonal warmth, separation distress, and support seeking could replace representational constructs such as internal working models with a view of relationship cognition anchored in the resources afforded to the individual by their brain, body, and environment in interaction. We review the neurobiological bases for social attachments and relationships and attempt to delineate how these systems overlap or don't with more basic physiological systems in ways that support or contradict a radical embodied explanation. We suggest that many effects might be the result of the fact that relationship cognition depends on and emerges out of the action of neural systems that regulate several clearly physically grounded systems. For example, the neuropeptide oxytocin appears to be central to attachment and pair-bond behavior (Carter and Keverne, 2002) and is implicated in social thermoregulation more broadly, being necessary for maintaining a warm body temperature (for a review, see lazerman et al., 2015b). Finally, we discuss the most challenging issues around taking a radically embodied perspective on social relationships. We find the most crucial challenge in individual differences in support seeking and responses to social contact, which have long been thought to be a function of representational structures in the mind (e.g., Baldwin, 1995). Together we entertain the thought to explain such individual differences without mediating representations or computations, but in the end propose a hybrid model of radical embodiment and internal representations.
573	ecological	2015	Wiltshire, TJ; Lobato, EJC; McConnell, DS; Fiore, SM	Prospects for direct social perception: a multi-theoretical integration to further the science of social cognition	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	In this paper we suggest that differing approaches to the science of social cognition mirror the arguments between radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognition. We contrast the use in social cognition of theoretical inference and mental simulation mechanisms with approaches emphasizing a direct perception of others' mental states. We build from a recent integrative framework unifying these divergent perspectives through the use of dual process theory and supporting social neuroscience research. Our elaboration considers two complementary notions of direct perception: one primarily stemming from ecological psychology and the other from enactive cognition theory. We use this as the foundation from which to offer an account of the informational basis for social information and assert a set of research propositions to further the science of social cognition. In doing so, we point out how perception of the minds of others can be supported in some cases by lawful information, supporting direct perception of social affordances and perhaps, mental states, and in other cases by cues that support indirect perceptual inference. Our goal is to extend accounts of social cognition by integrating advances across disciplines to provide a multi level and multi theoretic description that can advance this field and offer a means through which to reconcile radical embodied and traditional approaches to cognitive neuroscience.
574	ecological	2012	Travassos, B; Araujo, D; Davids, K; Esteves, PT; Fernandes, O	Improving Passing Actions in Team Sports by Developing Interpersonal Interactions Between Players	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SPORTS SCIENCE & COACHING	We investigated how interpersonal coordination tendencies of players in Futsal constrained performance of passing actions. To achieve this aim, we digitized 24 digital video film clips of attacking phases in competitive Futsal games. Values of interpersonal distance between players were recorded from the moment at which a teammate performed the pass to the ball carrier, to the moment of pass initiation by the ball carrier. Our results revealed that performance of passing actions was constrained by a convergence in interpersonal distance values between players. Pass efficacy seemed to be constrained by changes in interpersonal distance values between the ball carrier and the 2nd defender without a correspondent adaptation in ball velocity. Based on our results, we suggest three training phases for developing passing performance in Futsal by manipulating key constraints in the performance environment relative to the interpersonal distance values between players.
575	ecological	2012	Rosenbaum, DA	The Tiger on Your Tail: Choosing Between Temporally Extended Behaviors	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	The time spent choosing between temporally extended behaviors cannot, in general, last as long as the behaviors themselves; otherwise, the tiger on your tail would have you for lunch. Previous reaction time studies provide little information on this topic, which was explored in the study reported here by showing participants images of scenes for which they could choose a left or right walking-and-reaching path. The paths they chose were nearly identical to ones chosen by participants who actually performed the task in a previous study. Moreover, the times participants took to choose the actions were about 5 times shorter than the times it took to perform them. The choice-time data were inconsistent with the idea that participants picked the path with a lower cost after mentally simulating the paths one after the other. Showing real-world scenes and having participants choose actions for them holds promise for future research in cognitive psychology, ecological psychology, and behavioral ecology.
576	ecological	2012	Spivey, MJ	The spatial intersection of minds	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	Spatial formats of information are ubiquitous in the cognitive and neural sciences. There are neural uses of space in the topographic maps found throughout cortex. There are metaphorical uses of space in cognitive linguistics, physical uses of space in ecological psychology, and mathematical uses of space in dynamical systems theory. These varied informational uses of space each provide a single contiguous medium through which cognitive processes can be shared across subsystems. As we further develop our understanding of how the human mind processes information in real time, the continuous sharing and cascading of information patterns between brain areas can be extended to a sharing and cascading of information between multiple brains and bodies to produce coordinated behavior. Essentially, the way you and the people around you negotiate your shared space affects the way you think, because space is a fundamental part of how you think. It is via space that the mental processes of one mind can form an intersection with the mental processes of another mind.
577	ecological	2012	Williams, JM; Greenleaf, AT	Ecological Psychology: Potential Contributions to Social Justice and Advocacy in School Settings	JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL CONSULTATION	Inequities and disparities of various forms exist in public schools that significantly impact the academic success and healthy development of many students. The detrimental effects of social injustices within schools are often ignored by school-based professionals (SBPs) because an entrenched intrapsychic perspective dominates the professional discourse. In this article we explain how the medical model, and its discursive articulation in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed., text rev.; American Psychiatric Association, 2000), discourages SBPs from engaging in social justice advocacy in school settings. Next, we describe the ecological paradigm necessary for assessing and treating environmental-based problems within the ecosystem of students. We then argue that ecological psychology provides SBPs with a professional discourse that frames the need for social justice advocacy and action. Finally, we provide specific ways in which SBPs can become knowledgeable and empowered advocates both with and on behalf of K-12 students and their families.
578	ecological	2011	Mori, N	Where are we going beyond the archive metaphor?	CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY	Brockmeier integrates perspectives of several fields and shows that the use of the archive metaphor is reaching its expiration date. What he offers as an alternative to the metaphor is a new model based on the socio-cultural approach. Although the present author agrees with Brockmeier on the limitations of the archive metaphor and acknowledges the significance of the socio-cultural approach or narrative turn, yet a new view on body-environment relations and time is needed for a new theory of memory. We have found it to be a necessity when working on issues of examination of confession and testimony in legal settings. Our research team has accumulated practical and empirical evidence to propose an ecological approach to remembering and memory. It is also an alternative to the archive metaphor. An ecological approach to remembering and memory in constructing our scholarly autobiography is outlined.
579	ecological	2009	Waller, V	Information systems 'in the wild': supporting activity in the world	BEHAVIOUR & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	Although conventionally designed information systems provide information via a computerised display, in everyday life, our actions are informed by information obtained from a variety of places in a variety of ways. Drawing on conventional information systems (IS), human-computer interaction (HCI), ecological psychology and sociology and building on existing work on situated information systems, this article explores the idea of obtaining information from the environment to accomplish workplace activity in a routine way. A typology of conceptually distinct sources of information is presented and this has implications for what we understand information systems to be. Just as Hutchins (1995) refers to his conception of cognition as 'cognition in the wild', so we can conceive of situated information systems 'in the wild' rather than confined to computational space. The argument with respect to information systems analysis and design is that abstract representations should not be the only option considered. Using the information source that is most appropriate given the particular context of the actor and the environment will better support the accomplishment of collective routines, increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
580	ecological	2007	Shaw, R; Kinsella-Shaw, J	The survival value of informed awareness	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Various hypotheses about the importance of psycho-neural concomitants are reviewed and their implications discussed for the 'easy' and 'hard' problems of consciousness - especially, as viewed by cognitive and ecological psychology. In Ecological Psychology where the subjective-objective dichotomy is repudiated, these concepts are without foundation, and are replaced by informed awareness, which is argued to play an important, perhaps, indispensable role in goal-directed actions and thus to have survival value. The significance of informed awareness is illustrated in several real-world goal-directed tasks.
581	ecological	2005	Riley, MA; Shaw, TH; Pagano, CC	Role of the inertial eigenvectors in proprioception near the limits of arm adduction range of motion	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	Common everyday activities such as reaching for a cup, combing one's hair, or positioning a tool involve the accurate registration of the limb's orientation relative to the body and the environment. Past work has demonstrated that the ability of humans to perceive the spatial orientation of an occluded arm is tied to the arm's inertial eigenvectors, invariant mechanical parameters corresponding to a limb's axes of rotational symmetry. In a recent study [Craig, C. M., & Bourdin, C. (2002). Revisited: The inertia tensor as a proprioceptive invariant in humans. Neuroscience Letters, 317, 106-110.] participants pointed to visible targets while the arms' inertial eigenvectors were displaced by asymmetrically weighted splints. The lack of an effect of those splints on pointing error led them to conclude that inertial eigenvectors are not the primary invariants used for proprioception. However, their data suggested an effect of the eigenvectors, but only for conditions in which pointing did not require placing the arm near the limits of shoulder adduction range of motion [Riley, M. A., & Pagano, C. C. (2003). Inertial eigenvectors play a role in proprioception: Comment on Craig and Bourdin (2002). Ecological Psychology, 15, 229-240.]. In the present study we found a significant effect of displacing the eigenvector for all tested arm angles, regardless of degree of shoulder adduction. Overall, the results supported the hypothesis that proprioception is based on sensitivity to the limb's inertial eigenvectors, with no reduction of the eigenvector effect when adducting the arm so as to reach far across the body midline. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
582	ecological	2005	Green, LL; Fullilove, MT; Fullilove, RE	Remembering the lizard: Reconstructing sexuality in the rooms of narcotics anonymous	JOURNAL OF SEX RESEARCH	The crack epidemic was devastating to poor American communities in part because of the destruction wrought by the system of exchanging sex for drugs, which was a key feature of the crack-use culture. Sex-for-drugs exchanges were often conducted under unsafe circumstances and were linked to the spread of AIDS and other STDs as well as unplanned pregnancies. The existence of this alternative system of sexual relationships threatened the economic viability of established commercial sex work and undermined the status and power of women. Narcotics Anonymous (NA) meetings helped men and women recover from crack addiction through a well-described 12-step process. Described as "the rooms," these time- and space-specific encounters helped people become sober in the context of neighborhoods that were centers of the drug trade. Because of the key role of sex in the crack culture, transformation of sexual relationships was essential to establishing and maintaining sobriety. The manner in which the rooms of NA influence the sexuality and lifeworld of addicted people is explored using Barker's theory of ecological psychology.
583	ecological	1998	Costall, A; Leudar, I	On how we can act	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	This paper focuses on two of the points raised in Sharrock and Coulter's (1998) critique of James Gibson's later theorizing. They argue that Gibson limited himself to an overly abstracted and unified notion of 'perception', and that his theory of affordances involved an overly restrictive claim about the 'objects' of perception. We suggest an alternative reading of the theory of affordances, namely as a challenge to the traditional theoretical schema of 'perception'. Gibson's last book, we argue, is primarily about agency, about how we can act. We accept Sharrock and Coulter's point that ecological psychology needs to find a place for 'concepts' in its account of human life, but we question their apparent a priori assumption that human 'perceptual activities' are entirely 'rule-governed'. The degree and manner in which concepts figure in human life is indeed a matter for investigation.
584	ecological	1997	Meyering, TC	Some problems concerning a relational concept of mind	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	In discussing Looren de Jong's 'Some Remarks on a Relational Concept of Mind' (1997), this paper signals some foundational problems for ecological psychology, indeed for any psychology trying to incorporate a 'relational' concept of mind. Central to Gibson's theory is the notion of function. But how scientifically viable are (teleo)functional explanations? Specifically, the paper critically examines whether such ('broad') functional categories as sensitivity-for-affordances (a crucial notion in Gibson's theory) but also Marr's 'solid-object detection' or Churchlands' 'food-detection' are respectable psychological categories that are grounded in some causally explanatory theory; or whether they have no more than folk-psychological significance. A third, more intriguing, option would be that these categories are indeed causally inert, but nevertheless do generate unadulterated 'functional' explanations that are scientifically respectable without being causally explanatory. To defend this third option the standard appeal to multiple realizability is shown to be inadequate. Instead the notion of multiple supervenience is developed. It is argued that this notion effectively justifies the use of teleofunctional explanations compatibly with naturalist constraints on psychological theory formation.
585	ecological	1987	ORZEK, AM	INNOVATIONS IN ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY - CONVERSATIONS WITH BARKER,RODGER AND BARKER,LOUISE	JOURNAL OF COUNSELING AND DEVELOPMENT	0
586	ecological	1983	MACE, WM	PROCEEDINGS OF A MEETING OF THE INTERNATIONAL-SOCIETY-OF-ECOLOGICAL-PSYCHOLOGY	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	0
587	ecological	1982	BECHTEL, RB	CONTRIBUTIONS OF ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY TO THE EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTS	INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF APPLIED PSYCHOLOGY-REVUE INTERNATIONALE DE PSYCHOLOGIE APPLIQUEE	0
588	ecological	1979	ZAVALLONI, M; LOUISGUERIN, C	SOCIAL-PSYCHOLOGY AT THE CROSSROADS - ITS ENCOUNTER WITH COGNITIVE AND ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY AND THE INTERACTIVE PERSPECTIVE	EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
589	ecological	2016	Heras-Escribano, M; de Pinedo, M	Are affordances normative?	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	In this paper we explore in what sense we can claim that affordances, the objects of perception for ecological psychology, are related to normativity. First, we offer an account of normativity and provide some examples of how it is understood in the specialized literature. Affordances, we claim, lack correctness criteria and, hence, the possibility of error is not among their necessary conditions. For this reason we will oppose Chemero's (2009) normative theory of affordances. Finally, we will show that there is a way in which taking advantage of affordances could be considered as possessing a normative character, but only when they are evaluated within the framework of social normative standards in particular situations. This reinforces our claim that affordances, per se, lack normativity and can only be taken to be rule-governed in relation to established normative practices.
590	ecological	2016	Ramstead, MJD; Veissiere, SPL; Kirmayer, LJ	Cultural Affordances: Scaffolding Local Worlds Through Shared Intentionally and Regimes of Attention	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper we outline a framework for the study of the mechanisms involved in the engagement of human agents with cultural affordances. Our aim is to better understand how culture and context interact with human biology to shape human behavior, cognition, and experience. We attempt to integrate several related approaches in the study of the embodied, cognitive, and affective substrates of sociality and culture and the sociocultural scaffolding of experience. The integrative framework we propose bridges cognitive and social sciences to provide (i) an expanded concept of 'affordance' that extends to sociocultural forms of life, and (ii) a multilevel account of the socioculturally scaffolded forms of affordance learning and the transmission of affordances in patterned sociocultural practices and regimes of shared attention. This framework provides an account of how cultural content and normative practices are built on a foundation of contentless basic mental processes that acquire content through immersive participation of the agent in social practices that regulate joint attention and shared intentionality.
591	ecological	2016	Menatti, L; da Rocha, AC	Landscape and Health: Connecting Psychology, Aesthetics, and Philosophy through the Concept of Affordance	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper we address a frontier topic in the humanities, namely how the cultural and natural construction that we call landscape affects well-being and health. Following an updated review of evidence-based literature in the fields of medicine, psychology, and architecture, we propose a new theoretical framework called "processual landscape," which is able to explain both the health-landscape and the medical agency-structure binomial pairs. We provide a twofold analysis of landscape, from both the cultural and naturalist points of view: in order to take into account its relationship with health, the definition of landscape as a cultural product needs to be broadened through naturalization, grounding it in the scientific domain. Landscape cannot be distinguished from the ecological environment. For this reason, we naturalize the idea of landscape through the notion of affordance and Gibson's ecological psychology. In doing so, we stress the role of agency in the theory of perception and the health-landscape relationship. Since it is the result of continuous and co-creational interaction between the cultural agent, the biological agent and the affordances offered to the landscape perceiver, the processual landscape is, in our opinion, the most comprehensive framework for explaining the health-landscape relationship. The consequences of our framework are not only theoretical, but ethical also: insofar as health is greatly affected by landscape, this construction represents something more than just part of our heritage or a place to be preserved for the aesthetic pleasure it provides. Rather, we can talk about the right to landscape as something intrinsically linked to the well-being of present and future generations.
592	ecological	2016	Myin, E	Perception as Something We Do	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	In this paper, I want to focus on the claim, prominently made by sensorimotor theorists, that perception is something we do. I will argue that understanding perceiving as a bodily doing allows for a strong non-dualistic position on the relation between experience and objective physical events, one which provides insight into why such relation seems problematic while at the same time providing means to relieve the tension. Next I will show how the claim that perception is something we do does not stand in opposition to, and is not refuted by, the fact that we often have perceptual experience without moving. In arguing that cases of motionless perception and perception-like experience are still doings it will be pointed out that the same interactive regularities which are engaged in in active perception still apply to them. Explaining how past interactive regularities can influence current perception or perception-like experience in a way which remains true to the idea that perception is a doing, so I will argue, can be done by invoking the past - the past itself, however, not its representation. The resulting historical, non-representational sensorimotor approach can join forces with Gibsonian ecological psychology - provided that such is also understood along lines that don't invoke externalist remnants of contents.
593	ecological	2015	Newgarden, K; Zheng, DP; Liu, M	An eco-dialogical study of second language learners' World of Warcraft (WoW) gameplay	LANGUAGE SCIENCES	This exploratory research proceeds from the perspective that language is ecological and dialogical. We examined variables derived from eco-dialogical coding of an episode of World of Warcraft play involving three English learners. According to the Eco-dialogical model (Zheng, 2012), second language (12) learners need to learn to take skilled linguistic action (Cowley, 2013), a process of realizing the values of physical, sociocultural and dialogical affordances in the environment. We employed Multinomial Logistic Regression to determine which of our variables were predictors for three types of values realizing; namely, way-finding orienting to sociocultural norms and synergized values realizing of both wayfinding and orientation to sociocultural norms. The model we developed suggested that when communicative projects collectively entailed players' a) verbalizing with synchronized avatar action, b) attending to game rules and c) coordinating in anticipation of good future prospects, players were more likely to realize both values realizing types synergistically. In other words, players' skilled linguistic action of prospective coordination, combined with multimodal languaging and constrained by WoW game rules, together, were more likely to lead to dual values realizing. This finding suggests that dual values realizing evokes connections between real-time first-order physical movements and multimodal languaging with situation transcending practices (Linell, 2009) which are second-order rules, and other sociocultural and linguistic norms. Coupling this finding with our Eco-dialogical unit of analysis, communicative projects, we suggest that these language learners developed co-agency. We conclude that our model should be tested in future studies that seek to illuminate the contribution of a new Eco-dialogical understanding of L2 learning and the potential for learners to have high quality languaging experiences in multiplayer 3D game environments and other social semiotically rich contexts. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
594	ecological	2014	McGann, M	Enacting a social ecology: radically embodied intersubjectivity	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Embodied approaches to cognitive science frequently describe the mind as "world-involving," indicating complementary and interdependent relationships between an agent and its environment. The precise nature of the environment is frequently left ill-described, however, and provides a challenge for such approaches, particularly, it is noted here, for the enactive approach which emphasizes this complementarity in quite radical terms. This paper argues that enactivists should work to find common cause with a dynamic form of ecological psychology, a theoretical perspective that provides the most explicit theory of the psychological environment currently extant. In doing so, the intersubjective, cultural nature of the ecology of human psychology is explored, with the challenges this poses for both enactivist and ecological approaches outlined. The theory of behavior settings (Barker; 1968; Schoggen, 1989) is used to present a framework for resolving some of these challenges. Drawing these various strands together an outline of a radical embodied account of intersubjectivity and social activity is presented.
595	ecological	2012	Wicker, AW	Perspectives on Behavior Settings: With Illustrations From Allison's Ethnography of a Japanese Hostess Club	ENVIRONMENT AND BEHAVIOR	The basic unit of ecological psychology, the behavior setting, has been conceptualized and studied from two contrasting but complementary perspectives. This article describes both and proposes development of an additional perspective incorporating the subjective experiences of setting occupants. According to the traditional view, behavior settings are self-regulating, extrapersonal systems that not only provide opportunities for occupants but also constrain their actions. The contemporary view focuses on individual and group sense-making in settings: Occupants attend to, assess, and act on environmental events in light of their current knowledge and beliefs. It also considers the larger contexts of settings. Ecological psychologists have largely neglected feelings and emotions arising from people's direct experiences of, and in, the settings they occupy. Research is needed to link such experiences with the setting features identified by the traditional and contemporary perspectives. An ethnographer's published account of a single behavior setting, a hostess club in Japan, provides illustrations for each viewpoint presented.
596	ecological	2010	Kirlik, A; Storkerson, P	Naturalizing Peirce's Semiotics: Ecological Psychology's Solution to the Problem of Creative Abduction	MODEL-BASED REASONING IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: ABDUCTION, LOGIC AND COMPUTATIONAL DISCOVERY	The study of model-based reasoning (MBR) is one of the most interesting recent developments at the intersection of psychology and the philosophy of science. Although a broad and eclectic area of inquiry, one central axis by which MBR connects these disciplines is anchored at one end in theories of internal reasoning (in cognitive science), and at the other, in C.S. Peirce's semiotics (in philosophy). In this paper, we attempt to show that Peirce's semiotics actually has more natural affinity on the psychological side with ecological psychology, as originated by James J. Gibson and especially Egon Brunswik, than it does with non-interactionist approaches to cognitive science. In particular, we highlight the strong ties we believe to exist between the triarchic structure of semiotics as conceived by Peirce, and the similar triarchic stucture of Brunswik's lens model of organismic achievement in irreducibly uncertain ecologies. The lens model, considered as a theory of creative abduction, provides a concrete instantiation of at least one, albeit limited, interpretation of Peirce's semiotics, one that we believe could be quite fruitful in future theoretical and empirical investigations of MBR in both science and philosophy.
597	ecological	2009	Anderson, ML; Chemero, A	Affordances and Intentionality: Reply to Roberts	JOURNAL OF MIND AND BEHAVIOR	In this essay we respond to some criticisms of the guidance theory of representation offered by Tom Roberts. We argue that although Roberts' criticisms miss their mark, he raises the important issue of the relationship between affordances and the action-oriented representations proposed by the guidance theory. Affordances play a prominent role in the anti-representationalist accounts offered by theorists of embodied cognition and ecological psychology, and the guidance theory is motivated in part by a desire to respond to the critiques of representationalism offered in such accounts, without giving up entirely on the idea that representations are an important part of the cognitive economy of many animals. Thus, explorations of whether and how such accounts can in fact be related and reconciled potentially offer to shed some light on this ongoing controversy. Although the current essay hardly settles the larger debate, it does suggest that there may be more possibility for agreement than is often supposed.
598	ecological	2007	Lahlou, S	Human activity modeling for systems design: A trans-disciplinary and empirical approach	Engineering Psychology and Cognitive Ergonomics, Proceedings	Complex system design is about technical specifications, but also how humans act in the loop in Dissemination, Operation, Maintenance and Evolution (DOME) of the system. In system specification, we focus on distribution of work between humans and systems. In design of system's DOME, on building an ecology of individual motives, organizational rules and mediating structures to keep the system sustainable. In our participative design process itself, on how to enroll and maintain test users in realistic experiments. We adopt a complementarist approach: we use different models of human cognition and behavior for each aspect. Human behavior is determined by many factors including subject's motives and goals, constraints and affordances of the context. We list here which models we use and how.
599	ecological	2006	Kadar, EE; Effken, JA	Beyond good and evil: Prelude to a science of the future	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	The central goal of ecological psychology is to develop a theory of how humans cope successfully with everyday tasks such as navigating safely through the environment. Achieving this seemingly simple goal has proved to be exceedingly difficult. The authors suggest that one of the reasons for the difficulty comes from a perhaps surprising source: the tension between two radically different ways of knowing, artistic (aesthetic) and scientific (empirical-theoretical). James J. Gibson utilized both ways of knowing throughout his career. His creativity cannot be denied, as evidenced by his many novel and intuitive ideas (e.g., the field of safe travel, perceptual systems, affordances); and he often sought to learn from artists. Nevertheless, Gibson never gave up on empirical research, consistently applying rigorous scientific methodology in his experimental work. Robert E. Shaw too utilized both ways of knowing, often seeking insights from art and applying these in his theory building and empirical research. In this article, the authors argue that reconciling these two seemingly disparate ways of knowing is a difficult, but nonetheless worthwhile, task that could benefit the field. As a basis for this claim, they first use a phenomenological and hermeneutic. critique of science to argue that ecological scientists need to assess critically the representationalist tradition in experimental science, focusing particularly on key assumptions of geometry and logic. The authors then propose that, if it is to achieve its goals, ecological psychology must find novel ways to understand how humans cope with everyday tasks. Finally, they argue that lessons from modern and postmodern artists' rejection of formal logic and the representationalist tradition, as well as their search for novel techniques, can be instructive and informative for the students of ecological psychology.
600	ecological	2005	Carello, C; Turvey, MT	Symmetry and duality: Principles for an ecological psychology, I - Introduction	ECOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY	0
601	embodied	2010	Cattaneo, L; Sandrini, M; Schwarzbach, J	State-Dependent TMS Reveals a Hierarchical Representation of Observed Acts in the Temporal, Parietal, and Premotor Cortices	CEREBRAL CORTEX	A transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) adaptation paradigm was used to investigate the neural representation of observed motor behavior in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL), ventral premotor cortex (PMv), and in the cortex around the superior temporal sulcus (STS). Participants were shown adapting movies of a hand or a foot acting on different objects and were asked to compare to the movie, a motor act shown in test pictures. The invariant features between adapting and test stimuli fitted a 2 x 2 design: same or different action made by the same or different effector. Neuro-navigated TMS pulses were delivered at the onset of each test picture. TMS over the left and right PMv and over the left IPL induced a selective shortening of reaction times (RTs) to stimuli showing a repeated (adapted) action, regardless of the effector performing it. In a second experiment, TMS applied over the left STS induced shortening of RTs for adapted actions but only if also the effector was repeated. The results indicate that observed motor behavior is encoded with the body part that performs it in the temporal lobe. A hierarchically higher level of representation is carried by neural populations in the parietofrontal regions, where acts are encoded in an abstract way.
602	embodied	2009	Gallese, V	Motor abstraction: a neuroscientific account of how action goals and intentions are mapped and understood	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience shed light on the existence of a common neural mechanism that could account for action and intention to understand abilities in humans and non-human primates. Empirical evidence on the neural underpinnings of action goals and on their ontogeny and phylogeny is introduced and discussed. It is proposed that the properties of the mirror neuron system and the functional mechanism describing them, embodied simulation, enabled pre-linguistic forms of action and intention understanding. Basic aspects of social cognition appear to be primarily based on the motor cognition that underpins one's own capacity to act, here defined as motor abstraction. On the basis of this new account of the motor system, it is proposed that intersubjectivity is the best conceived of as intercorporeity.
603	embodied	2007	Walker, LJ; Frimer, JA	Moral personality of brave and caring exemplars	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Two contrasting types of moral exemplars were examined so as to identify personality variables associated with moral action. The sample comprised 50 Canadian awardees for either exceptional bravery or caring, as well as 50 comparison participants. Participants responded to a set of personality questionnaires and a life-review interview. Personality variables were found to substantially augment moral cognition in the prediction of exemplary action. In support of the notion that there is a personological core to the moral domain, it was found that moral exemplars were distinguished from the comparison groups by themes embodied in their life narratives. Specifically, moral exemplars had stronger motivational themes of both agency and communion, were more likely to construe critical life events redemptively, more frequently identified helpers in early life, and reported more secure attachments. Furthermore, the personality of caring exemplars was more nurturant, generative, and optimistic than that of brave exemplars; these somewhat divergent personality profiles imply multiple ideals of moral maturity.
604	embodied	2004	Garbarini, F; Adenzato, M	At the root of embodied cognition: Cognitive science meets neurophysiology	BRAIN AND COGNITION	Recent experimental research in the field of neurophysiology has led to the discovery of two classes of visuomotor neurons: canonical neurons and mirror neurons. In light of these studies, we propose here an overview of two classical themes in the cognitive science panorama: James Gibson's theory of affordances and Eleanor Rosch's principles of categorization. We discuss how theoretical perspectives and neuroscientific evidence are converging towards the current paradigm of embodied cognition. From this perspective, we discuss the role of action and simulation in cognitive processes, which lead to the perceptual recognition of objects, and actions and to their conceptual categorization. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
605	embodied	2011	Spunt, RP; Satpute, AB; Lieberman, MD	Identifying the What, Why, and How of an Observed Action: An fMRI Study of Mentalizing and Mechanizing during Action Observation	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Humans commonly understand the unobservable mental states of others by observing their actions. Embodied simulation theories suggest that this ability may be based in areas of the fronto-parietal mirror neuron system, yet neuroimaging studies that explicitly investigate the human ability to draw mental state inferences point to the involvement of a "mentalizing" system consisting of regions that do not overlap with the mirror neuron system. For the present study, we developed a novel action identification paradigm that allowed us to explicitly investigate the neural bases of mentalizing observed actions. Across repeated viewings of a set of ecologically valid video clips of ordinary human actions, we manipulated the extent to which participants identified the unobservable mental states of the actor (mentalizing) or the observable mechanics of their behavior (mechanizing). Although areas of the mirror neuron system did show an enhanced response during action identification, its activity was not significantly modulated by the extent to which the observers identified mental states. Instead, several regions of the mentalizing system, including dorsal and ventral aspects of medial pFC, posterior cingulate cortex, and temporal poles, were associated with mentalizing actions, whereas a single region in left lateral occipito-temporal cortex was associated with mechanizing actions. These data suggest that embodied simulation is insufficient to account for the sophisticated mentalizing that human beings are capable of while observing another and that a different system along the cortical midline and in anterior temporal cortex is involved in mentalizing an observed action.
606	embodied	2012	Bargh, JA; Schwader, KL; Hailey, SE; Dyer, RL; Boothby, EJ	Automaticity in social-cognitive processes	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Over the past several years, the concept of automaticity of higher cognitive processes has permeated nearly all domains of psychological research. In this review, we highlight insights arising from studies in decision-making, moral judgments, close relationships, emotional processes, face perception and social judgment, motivation and goal pursuit, conformity and behavioral contagion, embodied cognition, and the emergence of higher-level automatic processes in early childhood. Taken together, recent work in these domains demonstrates that automaticity does not result exclusively from a process of skill acquisition (in which a process always begins as a conscious and deliberate one, becoming capable of automatic operation only with frequent use) there are evolved substrates and early childhood learning mechanisms involved as well.
607	embodied	2010	Louwerse, MM; Jeuniaux, P	The linguistic and embodied nature of conceptual processing	COGNITION	Recent theories of cognition have argued that embodied experience is important for conceptual processing. Embodiment can be contrasted with linguistic factors such as the typical order in which words appear in language. Here, we report four experiments that investigated the conditions under which embodiment and linguistic factors determine performance. Participants made speeded judgments about whether pairs of words or pictures were semantically related or had an iconic relationship. The embodiment factor was operationalized as the degree to which stimulus pairs were presented in the spatial configurations in which they usually occur (i.e., an iconic configuration, e.g., attic presented above basement). The linguistic factor was operationalized as the frequency of the stimulus pairs in language. The embodiment factor predicted error rates and response time better for pictures, whereas the linguistic factor predicted error rates and response time better for words. These findings were modified by task, with the embodiment factor being strongest in iconicity judgments for pictures and the linguistic factor being strongest in semantic judgments for words. Both factors predicted error rates and response time for both semantic and iconicity judgments. These findings support the view that conceptual processing is both linguistic and embodied, with a bias for the embodiment or the linguistic factor depending on the nature of the task and the stimuli. Published by Elsevier B.V.
608	embodied	2012	Yu, C; Smith, LB	Embodied attention and word learning by toddlers	COGNITION	Many theories of early word learning begin with the uncertainty inherent to learning a word from its co-occurrence with a visual scene. However, the relevant visual scene for infant word learning is neither from the adult theorist's view nor the mature partner's view, but is rather from the learner's personal view. Here we show that when 18-month old infants interacted with objects in play with their parents, they created moments in which a single object was visually dominant. If parents named the object during these moments of bottom-up selectivity, later forced-choice tests showed that infants learned the name, but did not when naming occurred during a less visually selective moment. The momentary visual input for parents and toddlers was captured via head cameras placed low on each participant's forehead as parents played with and named objects for their infant. Frame-by-frame analyses of the head camera images at and around naming moments were conducted to determine the visual properties at input that were associated with learning. The analyses indicated that learning occurred when bottom-up visual information was clean and uncluttered. The sensory-motor behaviors of infants and parents were also analyzed to determine how their actions on the objects may have created these optimal visual moments for learning. The results are discussed with respect to early word learning, embodied attention, and the social role of parents in early word learning. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
609	embodied	2010	Domahs, F; Moeller, K; Huber, S; Willmes, K; Nuerk, HC	Embodied numerosity: Implicit hand-based representations influence symbolic number processing across cultures	COGNITION	In recent years, a strong functional relationship between finger counting and number processing has been suggested. Developmental studies have shown specific effects of the structure of the individual finger counting system on arithmetic abilities. Moreover, the orientation of the mental quantity representation ("number line") seems to be influenced by finger counting habits. However, it is unclear whether the structure of finger counting systems still influences symbolic number processing in educated adults. In the present transcultural study, we pursued this question by examining finger-based sub-base-five effects in an Arabic number comparison task with three different groups of participants (German deaf signers, German and Chinese hearing adults). We observed sub-base-five effects in all groups, but particularly so for both German groups who use an explicit sub-base-five system in their finger counting habits. It is concluded that bodily experiences - namely finger counting - influence the structure of the abstract mental number representations even in adults. Thus, the present findings support the general idea that even seemingly abstract cognition may at least partially be rooted in our bodily experiences. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
610	embodied	2010	Casasanto, D; Dijkstra, K	Motor action and emotional memory	COGNITION	Can simple motor actions affect how efficiently people retrieve emotional memories, and influence what they choose to remember? In Experiment 1, participants were prompted to retell autobiographical memories with either positive or negative valence, while moving marbles either upward or downward. They retrieved memories faster when the direction of movement was congruent with the valence of the memory (upward for positive, downward for negative memories). Given neutral-valence prompts in Experiment 2, participants retrieved more positive memories when instructed to move marbles up, and more negative memories when instructed to move them down, demonstrating a causal link from motion to emotion. Results suggest that positive and negative life experiences are implicitly associated with schematic representations of upward and downward motion, consistent with theories of metaphorical mental representation. Beyond influencing the efficiency of memory retrieval, the direction of irrelevant, repetitive motor actions can also partly determine the emotional content of the memories people retrieve: moving marbles upward (an ostensibly meaningless action) can cause people to think more positive thoughts. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
611	embodied	2009	Lorey, B; Bischoff, M; Pilgramm, S; Stark, R; Munzert, J; Zentgraf, K	The embodied nature of motor imagery: the influence of posture and perspective	EXPERIMENTAL BRAIN RESEARCH	It is assumed that imagining oneself from a first-person perspective (1PP) is more embodied than a third-person perspective (3PP). Therefore, 1PP imagery should lead to more activity in motor and motor-related structures, and the postural configuration of one's own body should be particularly relevant in 1PP simulation. The present study investigated whether proprioceptive information on hand position is integrated similarly in 1PP and 3PP imagery of hand movements. During functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning, 20 right-handed female college students watched video sequences of different hand movements with their right hand in a compatible versus incompatible posture and subsequently performed 1PP or 3PP imagery of the movement. Results showed stronger activation in left hemisphere motor and motor-related structures, especially the inferior parietal lobe, on 1PP compared with 3PP trials. Activation in the left inferior parietal lobe (parietal operculum, SII) and the insula was stronger in 1PP trials with compatible compared with incompatible posture. Thus, proprioceptive information on actual body posture is more relevant for 1PP imagery processes. Results support the embodied nature of 1PP imagery and indicate possible applications in athletic training or rehabilitation.
612	embodied	2006	Amorim, MA; Isableu, B; Jarraya, M	Embodied spatial transformations: "Body analogy" for the mental rotation of objects	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The cognitive advantage of imagined spatial transformations of the human body over that of more unfamiliar objects (e.g., Shepard-Metzler [S-M] cubes) is an issue for validating motor theories of visual perception. In 6 experiments, the authors show that providing S-M cubes with body characteristics (e.g., by adding a head to S-M cubes to evoke a posture) facilitates the mapping of the cognitive coordinate system of one's body onto the abstract shape. In turn, this spatial embodiment improves object shape matching. Thanks to the increased cohesiveness of human posture in people's body schema, imagined transformations of the body operate in a less piecemeal fashion as compared with objects (S-M cubes or swing-arm desk lamps) under a similar spatial configuration, provided that the pose can be embodied. If the pose cannot be emulated (covert imitation) by the sensorimotor system, the facilitation due to motoric embodiment will also be disrupted.
613	embodied	2010	Goldin-Meadow, S; Beilock, SL	Action's Influence on Thought: The Case of Gesture	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent research has shown that people's actions can influence how they think. A separate body of research has shown that the gestures people produce when they speak can also influence how they think. In this article, we bring these two literatures together to explore whether gesture has an effect on thinking by virtue of its ability to reflect real-world actions. We first argue that gestures contain detailed perceptual-motor information about the actions they represent, information often not found in the speech that accompanies the gestures. We then show that the action features in gesture do not just reflect the gesturer's thinking-they can feed back and alter that thinking. Gesture actively brings action into a speaker's mental representations, and those mental representations then affect behavior-at times more powerfully than do the actions on which the gestures are based. Gesture thus has the potential to serve as a unique bridge between action and abstract thought.
614	embodied	2007	Dijkstra, K; Kaschak, MP; Zwaan, RA	Body posture facilitates retrieval of autobiographical memories	COGNITION	We assessed potential facilitation of congruent body posture on access to and retention of autobiographical memories in younger and older adults. Response times were shorter when body positions during prompted retrieval of autobiographical events were similar to the body positions in the original events than when body position was incongruent. Free recall of the autobiographical events two weeks later was also better for congruent-posture than for incongruent-posture memories. The findings were similar for younger and older adults, except for the finding that free recall was more accurate in younger adults than in older adults in the congruent condition. We discuss these findings in the context of theories of embodied cognition. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
615	embodied	2003	de Rosis, F; Pelachaud, C; Poggi, I; Carofiglio, V; De Carolis, B	From Greta's mind to her face: modelling the dynamics of affective states in a conversational embodied agent	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HUMAN-COMPUTER STUDIES	This paper describes the results of a research project aimed at implementing a 'realistic' 3D Embodied Agent that can be animated in real-time and is 'believable and expressive': that is, able to coherently communicate complex information through the combination and the tight synchronisation of verbal and nonverbal signals. We describe, in particular, how we 'animate' this Agent (that we called Greta) so as to enable her to manifest the affective states that are dynamically activated and de-activated in her mind during the dialog with the user. The system is made up of three tightly interrelated components: A representation of the Agent Mind: this includes long and short-term affective components (personality and emotions) and simulates how emotions are triggered and decay over time according to the Agent's personality and to the context, and how several emotions may overlap. Dynamic belief networks with weighting of goals is the formalism we employ to this purpose. A mark-up language to denote the communicative meanings that may be associated with dialog moves performed by the Agent. A translation of the Agent's tagged move into a face expression, that combines appropriately the available channels (gaze direction, eyebrow shape, head direction and movement etc). The final output is a 3-D facial model that respects the MPEG-4 standard and uses MPEG-4 Facial Animation Parameters to produce facial expressions. Throughout the paper, we illustrate the results obtained, with an example of dialog in the domain of 'Advice about eating disorders'. The paper concludes with an analysis of advantages of our cognitive model of emotion triggering and of the problems found in testing it. Although we did not yet complete a formal evaluation of our system, we briefly describe how we plan to assess the agent's believability in terms of consistency of its communicative behaviour. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
616	embodied	2012	Koziol, LF; Budding, DE; Chidekel, D	From Movement to Thought: Executive Function, Embodied Cognition, and the Cerebellum	CEREBELLUM	This paper posits that the brain evolved for the control of action rather than for the development of cognition per se. We note that the terms commonly used to describe brain-behavior relationships define, and in many ways limit, how we conceptualize and investigate them and may therefore constrain the questions we ask and the utility of the "answers" we generate. Many constructs are so nonspecific and over-inclusive as to be scientifically meaningless. "Executive function" is one such term in common usage. As the construct is increasingly focal in neuroscience research, defining it clearly is critical. We propose a definition that places executive function within a model of continuous sensorimotor interaction with the environment. We posit that control of behavior is the essence of "executive function," and we explore the evolutionary advantage conferred by being able to anticipate and control behavior with both implicit and explicit mechanisms. We focus on the cerebellum's critical role in these control processes. We then hypothesize about the ways in which procedural (skill) learning contributes to the acquisition of declarative (semantic) knowledge. We hypothesize how these systems might interact in the process of grounding knowledge in sensorimotor anticipation, thereby directly linking movement to thought and "embodied cognition." We close with a discussion of ways in which the cerebellum instructs frontal systems how to think ahead by providing anticipatory control mechanisms, and we briefly review this model's potential applications.
617	embodied	2012	Bargh, JA; Shalev, I	The Substitutability of Physical and Social Warmth in Daily Life	EMOTION	Classic and contemporary research on person perception has demonstrated the paramount importance of interpersonal warmth. Recent research on embodied cognition has shown that feelings of social warmth or coldness can be induced by experiences of physical warmth or coldness, and vice versa. Here we show that people tend to self-regulate their feelings of social warmth through applications of physical warmth, apparently without explicit awareness of doing so. In Study 1, higher scores on a measure of chronic loneliness (social coldness) were associated with an increased tendency to take warm baths or showers. In Study 2, a physical coldness manipulation significantly increased feelings of loneliness. In Study 3, needs for social affiliation and for emotion regulation, triggered by recall of a past rejection experience, were subsequently eliminated by an interpolated physical warmth experience. Study 4 provided evidence that people are not explicitly aware of the relationship between physical and social warmth (coldness), as they do not consider a target person who often bathes to be any lonelier than one who does not, with all else being equal. Together, these findings suggest that physical and social warmth are to some extent substitutable in daily life and that this substitution reflects an unconscious self-regulatory mechanism.
618	embodied	2010	Kitayama, S; Park, J	Cultural neuroscience of the self: understanding the social grounding of the brain	SOCIAL COGNITIVE AND AFFECTIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Cultural neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field of research that investigates interrelations among culture, mind and the brain. Drawing on both the growing body of scientific evidence on cultural variation in psychological processes and the recent development of social and cognitive neuroscience, this emerging field of research aspires to understand how culture as an amalgam of values, meanings, conventions, and artifacts that constitute daily social realities might interact with the mind and its underlying brain pathways of each individual member of the culture. In this article, following a brief review of studies that demonstrate the surprising degree to which brain processes are malleably shaped by cultural tools and practices, the authors discuss cultural variation in brain processes involved in self-representations, cognition, emotion and motivation. They then propose (i) that primary values of culture such as independence and interdependence are reflected in the compositions of cultural tasks (i.e. daily routines designed to accomplish the cultural values) and further (ii) that active and sustained engagement in these tasks yields culturally patterned neural activities of the brain, thereby laying the ground for the embodied construction of the self and identity. Implications for research on culture and the brain are discussed.
619	embodied	2013	Peck, TC; Seinfeld, S; Aglioti, SM; Slater, M	Putting yourself in the skin of a black avatar reduces implicit racial bias	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Although it has been shown that immersive virtual reality (IVR) can be used to induce illusions of ownership over a virtual body (VB), information on whether this changes implicit interpersonal attitudes is meager. Here we demonstrate that embodiment of light-skinned participants in a dark-skinned VB significantly reduced implicit racial bias against dark-skinned people, in contrast to embodiment in light-skinned, purple-skinned or with no VB. 60 females participated in this between-groups experiment, with a VB substituting their own, with full-body visuomotor synchrony, reflected also in a-virtual mirror. A racial Implicit Association Test (IAT) was administered at least three days prior to the experiment, and immediately after the IVR exposure. The change from pre- to post-experience IAT scores suggests that the dark-skinned embodied condition decreased implicit racial bias more than the other conditions. Thus, embodiment may change negative interpersonal attitudes and thus represent a powerful tool for exploring such fundamental psychological and societal phenomena. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
620	embodied	2012	Alibali, MW; Nathan, MJ	Embodiment in Mathematics Teaching and Learning: Evidence From Learners' and Teachers' Gestures	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	Gestures are often taken as evidence that the body is involved in thinking and speaking about the ideas expressed in those gestures. In this article, we present evidence drawn from teachers' and learners' gestures to make the case that mathematical knowledge is embodied. We argue that mathematical cognition is embodied in 2 key senses: It is based in perception and action, and it is grounded in the physical environment. We present evidence for each of these claims drawn from the gestures that teachers and learners produce when they explain mathematical concepts and ideas. We argue that (a) pointing gestures reflect the grounding of cognition in the physical environment, (b) representational gestures manifest mental simulations of action and perception, and (c) some metaphoric gestures reflect body-based conceptual metaphors. Thus, gestures reveal that some aspects of mathematical thinking are embodied.
621	embodied	2010	Toiviainen, P; Luck, G; Thompson, MR	EMBODIED METER: HIERARCHICAL EIGENMODES IN MUSIC-INDUCED MOVEMENT	MUSIC PERCEPTION	LISTENING TO MUSIC OFTEN IS ASSOCIATED WITH SPONTANEOUS body movements frequently synchronized with its periodic structure. The notion of embodied cognition assumes that intelligent behavior does not emerge from mere passive perception, but requires goal-directed interactions between the organism and its environment. According to this view, one could postulate that we may use our bodily movements to help parse the metric structure of music. The aim of this study was to investigate how pulsations on different metrical levels manifest in music-induced movement. Musicians were presented with a piece of instrumental music in 4/4 time, played at four different tempi ranging from 92 to 138 bpm. Participants were instructed to move to the music, and their movements were recorded with a high quality optical motion capture system. Subsequently, signal processing methods and principal components analysis were applied to extract movement primitives synchronized with different metrical levels. We found differences between metric levels in terms of the prevalence of synchronized eigenmovements. For instance, mediolateral movements of arms were found to be frequently synchronized with the tactus level pulse, while rotation and lateral flexion of the upper torso were commonly found to exhibit periods of two and four beats, respectively. The results imply that periodicities on several metric levels are simultaneously present in music-induced movement. This could suggest that the metric structure of music is encoded in these movements.
622	embodied	2008	Taylor, LJ; Zwaan, RA	Motor resonance and linguistic focus	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	Previous studies have demonstrated that verbal descriptions of actions activate compatible motor responses (Glenberg & Kaschak, 2002; Zwaan & Taylor, 2006). The present study replicates previous findings showing that, within a sentence, such activation is localized on the verb that denotes the action. Moreover, motor resonance is found to yield to linguistic focus. If a postverbal adverb maintains focus on a matching action ("slowly" or "quickly"), motor resonance occurs, but if the adverb shifts the focus to the agent (e.g., "obediently" or "eagerly"), a cessation of motor resonance ensues. These findings are discussed within the context of theories of motor resonance, action understanding, mental simulation, and linguistic focus.
623	embodied	2002	Iyer, V	Embodied mind, situated cognition, and expressive microtiming in African-American music	MUSIC PERCEPTION	The dual theories of embodied mind and situated cognition, in which physical/temporal embodiment and physical/social/cultural environment contribute crucially to the structure of mind, are brought to bear on issues in music perception. It is argued that cognitive universals grounded in human bodily experience are tempered by the cultural specificity that constructs the role of the body in musical performance. Special focus is given to microrhythmic techniques in specific forms of African-American music, using audio examples created by the author or sampled from well-known jazz recordings.
624	embodied	2008	van Dantzig, S; Pecher, D; Zeelenberg, R; Barsalou, LW	Perceptual processing affects conceptual processing	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	According to the Perceptual Symbols Theory of cognition (Barsalou, 1999), modality-specific simulations underlie the representation of concepts. A strong prediction of this view is that perceptual processing affects conceptual processing. In this study, participants performed a perceptual detection task and a conceptual property-verification task in alternation. Responses on the property-verification task were slower for those trials that were preceded by a perceptual trial in a different modality than for those that were preceded by a perceptual trial in the same modality. This finding of a modality-switch effect across perceptual processing and conceptual processing supports the hypothesis that perceptual and conceptual representations are partially based on the same systems.
625	embodied	2008	Williams, JHG	Self-Other Relations in Social Development and Autism: Multiple Roles for Mirror Neurons and Other Brain Bases	AUTISM RESEARCH	Mirror neuron system dysfunction may underlie a self-other matching impairment, which has previously been suggested to account for autism. Embodied Cognition Theory, which proposes that action provides a foundation for cognition has tent further credence to these ideas. The hypotheses of a self-other matching deficit and impaired mirror neuron function in autism have now been well supported by studies employing a range of methodologies. However, underlying mechanisms require further exploration to explain how mirror neurons may be involved in attentional and mentalizing processes. Impairments in self-other matching and mirror neuron function are not necessarily inextricably linked and it seems possible that different sub-populations of mirror neurons, located in several regions, contribute differentially to social cognitive functions. It is hypothesized that mirror neuron coding for action-direction may be required for developing attentional sensitivity to self-directed actions, and consequently for person-oriented, stimulus-driven attention. Mirror neuron networks may vary for different types of social learning such as "automatic" imitation and imitation learning. Imitation learning may be more reliant on self-other comparison processes (based on mirror neurons) that identify differences as well as similarities between actions. Differential connectivity with the amygdala-orbitofrontal system may also be important. This could have implications for developing "theory of mind," with intentional self-other comparison being relevant to meta-representational abilities, and "automatic" imitation being more relevant to empathy. While it seems clear that autism is associated with impaired development of embodied aspects of cognition, the ways that mirror neurons contribute to these brain-behavior links are likely to be complex.
626	embodied	2006	Cangelosi, A; Riga, T	An embodied model for sensorimotor grounding and grounding transfer: Experiments with epigenetic robots	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The grounding of symbols in computational models of linguistic abilities is one of the fundamental properties of psychologically plausible cognitive models. In this article, we present an embodied model for the grounding of language in action based on epigenetic robots. Epigenetic robotics is one of the new cognitive modeling approaches to modeling autonomous mental development. The robot model is based on an integrative vision of language in which linguistic abilities are strictly dependent on and grounded in other behaviors and skills. It uses simulated robots that learn through imitation the names of basic actions. Robots also learn higher order action concepts through the process of grounding transfer. The simulation demonstrates how new, higher order behavioral abilities can be autonomously built on previously grounded basic action categories following linguistic interaction with human users.
627	embodied	2009	Spengler, S; von Cramon, DY; Brass, M	Control of Shared Representations Relies on Key Processes Involved in Mental State Attribution	HUMAN BRAIN MAPPING	Action observation leads to the automatic activation of the corresponding motor representation in the observer through "mirror-matching." This constitutes a "shared representational system," which is thought to subserve social understanding by motor simulation. However, it is unclear how these shared representations can be controlled and distinguished. Brain imaging Suggests that controlling shared representations, indexed by the ability to control automatic imitative responses, activates anterior fronto-median cortex (aFMC), and temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). Crucially, these regions are also consistently implicated in mental state attribution and have provided an alternative account for higher-level social cognition. Here, we directly tested whether social-cognitive processes involve similar key computational mechanisms as the control of shared representations by using functional brain imaging to reveal overlapping brain circuits. We show in a within-subject design that commonly activated regions occurred selectively in aFMC and TPJ. Mentalizing and self-referential thoughts recruited a region in aFMC, which was also activated when controlling imitation. In the TPJ, an area overlapped between mentalizing, agency processing, and imitative control. Behavioral and neural correlates of mentalizing were further related to the individual ability for controlling imitation. Our findings support the assumption of shared key processes and suggest a novel link between embodied and social cognition. Hum Brain Mapp 30:3704-3718, 2009. (C) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
628	embodied	2007	Just, MA; Varma, S	The organization of thinking: What functional brain imaging reveals about the neuroarchitecture of complex cognition	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Recent findings in brain imaging, particularly in fMRI, are beginning to reveal some of the fundamental properties of the organization of the cortical systems that underpin complex cognition. We propose an emerging set of operating principles that govern this organization, characterizing the system as a set of collabonating cortical centers that operate as a large-scale cortical network. Two of the network's critical features are that it is resource constrained and dynamically configured, with resource constraints and demands dynamically shaping the network topology. The operating principles are embodied in a cognitive neuroarchitecture, 4CAPS, consisting of a number of interacting computational centers that correspond to activating cortical areas. Each 4CAPS center is a hybrid production system, possessing both symbolic and connectionist attributes. We describe 4CAPS models of sentence comprehension, spatial problem solving, and complex multitasking and compare the accounts of these models with brain activation and behavioral results. Finally, we compare 4CAPS with other proposed neuroarchitectures.
629	embodied	2007	Landy, D; Goldstone, RL	How abstract is symbolic thought?	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 4 experiments, the authors explored the role of visual layout in rule-based syntactic judgments. Participants judged the validity of a set of algebraic equations that tested their ability to apply the order of operations. In each experiment, a nonmathematical grouping pressure was manipulated to support or interfere with the mathematical convention. Despite the formal irrelevance of these grouping manipulations, accuracy in all experiments was highest when the nonmathematical pressure supported the mathematical grouping. The increase was significantly greater when the correct judgment depended on the order of operator precedence. The result that visual perception impacts rule application in mathematics has broad implications for relational reasoning in general. The authors conclude that formally symbolic reasoning is more visual than is usually proposed.
630	embodied	2005	Yu, C; Ballard, DH; Aslin, RN	The role of embodied intention in early lexical acquisition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We examine the influence of inferring interlocutors' referential intentions from their body movements at the early stage of lexical acquisition. By testing human participants and comparing their performances in different learning conditions, we find that those embodied intentions facilitate both word discovery and word-meaning association. In light of empirical findings, the main part of this article presents a computational model that can identify the sound patterns of individual words from continuous speech, using nonlinguistic contextual information, and employ body movements as deictic references to discover word-meaning associations. To our knowledge, this work is the first model of word learning that not only learns lexical items from raw multisensory signals to closely resemble infant language development from natural environments, but also explores the computational role of social cognitive skills in lexical acquisition.
631	embodied	2014	Willems, RM; Van der Haegen, L; Fisher, SE; Francks, C	On the other hand: including left-handers in cognitive neuroscience and neurogenetics	NATURE REVIEWS NEUROSCIENCE	Left-handers are often excluded from study cohorts in neuroscience and neurogenetics in order to reduce variance in the data. However, recent investigations have shown that the inclusion or targeted recruitment of left-handers can be informative in studies on a range of topics, such as cerebral lateralization and the genetic underpinning of asymmetrical brain development. Left-handed individuals represent a substantial portion of the human population and therefore left-handedness falls within the normal range of human diversity; thus, it is important to account for this variation in our understanding of brain functioning. We call for neuroscientists and neurogeneticists to recognize the potential of studying this often-discarded group of research subjects.
632	embodied	2011	Chu, MY; Kita, S	The Nature of Gestures' Beneficial Role in Spatial Problem Solving	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	Co-thought gestures are hand movements produced in silent, noncommunicative, problem-solving situations. In the study, we investigated whether and how such gestures enhance performance in spatial visualization tasks such as a mental rotation task and a paper folding task. We found that participants gestured more often when they had difficulties solving mental rotation problems (Experiment 1). The gesture-encouraged group solved more mental rotation problems correctly than did the gesture-allowed and gesture-prohibited groups (Experiment 2). Gestures produced by the gesture-encouraged group enhanced performance in the very trials in which they were produced (Experiments 2 & 3). Furthermore, gesture frequency decreased as the participants in the gesture-encouraged group solved more problems (Experiments 2 & 3). In addition, the advantage of the gesture-encouraged group persisted into subsequent spatial visualization problems in which gesturing was prohibited: another mental rotation block (Experiment 2) and a newly introduced paper folding task (Experiment 3). The results indicate that when people have difficulty in solving spatial visualization problems, they spontaneously produce gestures to help them, and gestures can indeed improve performance. As they solve more problems, the spatial computation supported by gestures becomes internalized, and the gesture frequency decreases. The benefit of gestures persists even in subsequent spatial visualization problems in which gesture is prohibited. Moreover, the beneficial effect of gesturing can be generalized to a different spatial visualization task when two tasks require similar spatial transformation processes. We concluded that gestures enhance performance on spatial visualization tasks by improving the internal computation of spatial transformations.
633	embodied	2009	Pezzulo, G; Castelfranchi, C	Thinking as the control of imagination: a conceptual framework for goal-directed systems	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	This paper offers a conceptual framework which (re)integrates goal-directed control, motivational processes, and executive functions, and suggests a developmental pathway from situated action to higher level cognition. We first illustrate a basic computational (control-theoretic) model of goal-directed action that makes use of internal modeling. We then show that by adding the problem of selection among multiple action alternatives motivation enters the scene, and that the basic mechanisms of executive functions such as inhibition, the monitoring of progresses, and working memory, are required for this system to work. Further, we elaborate on the idea that the off-line re-enactment of anticipatory mechanisms used for action control gives rise to (embodied) mental simulations, and propose that thinking consists essentially in controlling mental simulations rather than directly controlling behavior and perceptions. We conclude by sketching an evolutionary perspective of this process, proposing that anticipation leveraged cognition, and by highlighting specific predictions of our model.
634	embodied	2012	Blasing, B; Calvo-Merino, B; Cross, ES; Jola, C; Honisch, J; Stevens, CJ	Neurocognitive control in dance perception and performance	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Dance is a rich source of material for researchers interested in the integration of movement and cognition. The multiple aspects of embodied cognition involved in performing and perceiving dance have inspired scientists to use dance as a means for studying motor control, expertise, and action-perception links. The aim of this review is to present basic research on cognitive and neural processes implicated in the execution, expression, and observation of dance, and to bring into relief contemporary issues and open research questions. The review addresses six topics: 1) dancers' exemplary motor control, in terms of postural control, equilibrium maintenance, and stabilization; 2) how dancers' timing and on-line synchronization are influenced by attention demands and motor experience; 3) the critical roles played by sequence learning and memory; 4) how dancers make strategic use of visual and motor imagery; 5) the insights into the neural coupling between action and perception yielded through exploration of the brain architecture mediating dance observation; and 6) a neuroesthetics perspective that sheds new light on the way audiences perceive and evaluate dance expression. Current and emerging issues are presented regarding future directions that will facilitate the ongoing dialog between science and dance. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
635	embodied	2005	Gusnard, DA	Being a self: Considerations from functional imaging	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	Having a self is associated with important advantages for an organism. These advantages have been suggested to include mechanisms supporting elaborate capacities for planning, decision-making, and behavioral control. Acknowledging such functionality offers possibilities for obtaining traction on investigation of neural correlates of selfhood. A method that has potential for investigating some of the brain-based properties of self arising in behavioral contexts varying in requirements for such behavioral guidance and control is functional brain imaging. Data obtained with this method are beginning to converge on a set of brain areas that appear to play a significant role in permitting conscious access to representational content having reference to self as an embodied and independent experiencer and agent. These areas have been identified in a variety of imaging contexts ranging from passive state conditions in which they appear to manifest ongoing activity associated with spontaneous and typically 'self-related' cognition, to tasks targeting explicitly experienced properties of self, to demanding task conditions where activity within them is attenuated in apparent redirection of cognitive resources in the service of task guidance and control. In this paper, these data will be reviewed and a hypothesis presented regarding a significant role for these areas in enabling degrees of self-awareness and participating in the management of such behavioral control. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
636	embodied	2013	Friston, KJ; Schwartenbeck, P; FitzGerald, T; Moutoussis, M; Behrens, T; Dolan, RJ	The anatomy of choice: active inference and agency	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	This paper considers agency in the setting of embodied or active inference. In brief, we associate a sense of agency with prior beliefs about action and ask what sorts of beliefs underlie optimal behavior. In particular, we consider prior beliefs that action minimizes the KullbackLeibler (KL) divergence between desired states and attainable states in the future. This allows one to formulate bounded rationality as approximate Bayesian inference that optimizes a free energy bound on model evidence. We show that constructs like expected utility, exploration bonuses, softmax choice rules and optimism bias emerge as natural consequences of this formulation. Previous accounts of active inference have focused on predictive coding and Bayesian filtering schemes for minimizing free energy. Here, we consider variational Bayes as an alternative scheme that provides formal constraints on the computational anatomy of inference and actionconstraints that are remarkably consistent with neuroanatomy. Furthermore, this scheme contextualizes optimal decision theory and economic (utilitarian) formulations as pure inference problems. For example, expected utility theory emerges as a special case of free energy minimization, where the sensitivity or inverse temperature (of softmax functions and quantal response equilibria) has a unique and Bayes-optimal solutionthat minimizes free energy. This sensitivity corresponds to the precision of beliefs about behavior, such that attainable goals are afforded a higher precision or confidence. In turn, this means that optimal behavior entails a representation of confidence about outcomes that are under an agent's control.
637	embodied	2010	Jirak, D; Menz, MM; Buccino, G; Borghi, AM; Binkofski, F	Grasping language - A short story on embodiment	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	The new concept of embodied cognition theories has been enthusiastically studied by the cognitive sciences, by as well as such disparate disciplines as philosophy, anthropology, neuroscience, and robotics Embodiment theory provides the framework for ongoing discussions on the linkage between "low" cognitive processes as perception and "high" cognition as language processing and comprehension, respectively This review gives an overview along the lines of argumentation in the ongoing debate on the embodiment of language and employs an ALE meta-analysis to illustrate and weigh previous findings The collected evidence on the somatotopic activation of motor areas, abstract and concrete word processing, as well as from reported patient and timing studies emphasizes the important role of sensorimotor areas in language processing and supports the hypothesis that the motor system is activated during language comprehension (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
638	embodied	2003	Horsky, J; Kaufman, DR; Oppenheim, MI; Patel, VL	A framework for analyzing the cognitive complexity of computer-assisted clinical ordering	JOURNAL OF BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS	Computer-assisted provider order entry is a technology that is designed to expedite medical ordering and to reduce the frequency of preventable errors. This paper presents a multifaceted cognitive methodology for the characterization of cognitive demands of a medical information system. Our investigation was informed by the distributed resources (DR) model, a novel approach designed to describe the dimensions of user interfaces that introduce unnecessary cognitive complexity. This method evaluates the relative distribution of external (system) and internal (user) representations embodied in system interaction. We conducted an expert walkthrough evaluation of a commercial order entry system, followed by a simulated clinical ordering task performed by seven clinicians. The DR model was employed to explain variation in user performance and to characterize the relationship of resource distribution and ordering errors. The analysis revealed that the configuration of resources in this ordering application placed unnecessarily heavy cognitive demands on the user, especially on those who lacked a robust conceptual model of the system. The resources model also provided some insight into clinicians' interactive strategies and patterns of associated errors. Implications for user training and interface design based on the principles of human-computer interaction in the medical domain are discussed. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
639	embodied	1998	Dautenhahn, K	The art of designing socially intelligent agents: Science, fiction, and the human in the loop	APPLIED ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	In this article, socially intelligent agents (SIAs) are understood to be agents that do not only from an observer point of view behave socially but that are able to recognize and identify other agents and establish and maintain relationships to other agents. The process of building SIAs is influenced by what the human as the designer considers "social," and conversely, agent tools that are behaving socially can influence human conceptions of sociality. A cognitive technology (CT) approach toward designing SIAs affords an opportunity to study the process of (1) how new forms of interactions and functionalities and use of technology can emerge at the human-tool interface, (2) how social agents can constrain their cognitive and social potential, and (3) how social agent technology and human (social) cognition can co-evolve and co-adapt and result in new forms of sociality. Agent-human interaction requires a cognitive fit between SIA technology and the human-in-the-loop as designer of, user of, and participant in social interactions. Aspects of human social psychology, e.g., storytelling, empathy, embodiment, and historical and ecological grounding, can contribute to a believable and cognitively well-balanced design of SIA technology in order to further the relationship between humans and agent tools. It is hoped that approaches to believability based on these concepts can avoid the "shallowness" chat merely takes advantage of the anthropomorphizing tendency in humans. This approach is put into the general framework of Embodied Artificial Life (EAL) research. The article concludes with a terminology and list of guidelines useful for SIA design.
640	embodied	2012	Spunt, RP; Lieberman, MD	An integrative model of the neural systems supporting the comprehension of observed emotional behavior	NEUROIMAGE	Understanding others' emotions requires both the identification of overt behaviors ("smiling") and the attribution of behaviors to a cause ("friendly disposition"). Previous research suggests that whereas emotion identification depends on a cortical mirror system that enables the embodiment of observed motor behavior within one's own motor system, causal attribution for emotion depends on a separate cortical mentalizing system, so-named because its function is associated with mental state representation. We used fMRI to test an Identification-Attribution model of mirror and mentalizing system contributions to the comprehension of emotional behavior. Normal volunteers watched a set of ecologically valid videos of human emotional displays. During each viewing, volunteers either identified an emotion-relevant motor behavior (explicit identification) or inferred a plausible social cause (explicit attribution). These explicit identification and attribution goals strongly distinguished activity in the mirror and mentalizing systems, respectively. However, frontal mirror areas, though preferentially engaged by the identification goal, nevertheless exhibited activation when observers possessed the attribution goal. One of these areas right posterior inferior frontal gyrus demonstrated effective connectivity with areas of the mentalizing system during attributional processing. These results support an integrative model of the neural systems supporting the comprehension of emotional behavior, where the mirror system helps facilitate the rapid identification of emotional expressions that then serve as inputs to attributional processing in the mentalizing system. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
641	embodied	1998	Servan-Schreiber, D; Carter, CS; Bruno, RM; Cohen, JD	Dopamine and the mechanisms of cognition: Part II. D-amphetamine effects in human subjects performing a selective attention task	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: A neural network computer model described in a companion paper predicted the effects of increased dopamine transmission on selective attention under two different hypotheses. Methods: To evaluate these predictions we conducted an empirical study in human subjects of D-amphetamine effects on performance of the Eriksen response competition task. Ten healthy volunteers were rested before and after placebo or D-amphetamine in a double-blind crossover design. Results: D-amphetamine induced a speeding of reaction time overall and an improvement of accuracy at fast reaction times but only in the task condition requiring selective attention. Conclusions: This pattern of results conforms to the prediction of the model under the hypothesis that D-amphetamine primarily affects dopamine transmission in cognitive rather than motor networks. This suggests that the principles embodied in parallel distributed processing models of task performance may be sufficient to predict and explain specific behavioral effects of some drug actions in the central nervous system. (C) 1998 Society of Biological Psychiatry. .
642	embodied	2012	Fischer, MH	A hierarchical view of grounded, embodied, and situated numerical cognition	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	There is much recent interest in the idea that we represent our knowledge together with the sensory and motor features that were activated during its acquisition. This paper reviews the evidence for such "embodiment" in the domain of numerical cognition, a traditional stronghold of abstract theories of knowledge representation. The focus is on spatial-numerical associations, such as the SNARC effect (small numbers are associated with left space, larger numbers with right space). Using empirical evidence from behavioral research, I first describe sensory and motor biases induced by SNARC, thus identifying numbers as embodied concepts. Next, I propose a hierarchical relationship between grounded, embodied, and situated aspects of number knowledge. This hierarchical conceptualization helps to understand the variety of SNARC-related findings and yields testable predictions about numerical cognition. I report several such tests, ranging from cross-cultural comparisons of horizontal and vertical SNARC effects (Shaki and Fischer in J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform 38(3): 804-809, 2012) to motor cortical activation studies in adults with left- and right-hand counting preferences (Tschentscher et al. in NeuroImage 59: 3139-3148, 2012). It is concluded that the diagnostic features for each level of the proposed hierarchical knowledge representation, together with the spatial associations of numbers, make the domain of numerical knowledge an ideal testing ground for embodied cognition research.
643	embodied	2011	Gramann, K; Gwin, JT; Ferris, DP; Oie, K; Jung, TP; Lin, CT; Liao, LD; Makeig, S	Cognition in action: imaging brain/body dynamics in mobile humans	REVIEWS IN THE NEUROSCIENCES	We have recently developed a mobile brain imaging method (MoBI), that allows for simultaneous recording of brain and body dynamics of humans actively behaving in and interacting with their environment. A mobile imaging approach was needed to study cognitive processes that are inherently based on the use of human physical structure to obtain behavioral goals. This review gives examples of the tight coupling between human physical structure with cognitive processing and the role of supraspinal activity during control of human stance and locomotion. Existing brain imaging methods for actively behaving participants are described and new sensor technology allowing for mobile recordings of different behavioral states in humans is introduced. Finally, we review recent work demonstrating the feasibility of a MoBI system that was developed at the Swartz Center for Computational Neuroscience at the University of California, San Diego, demonstrating the range of behavior that can be investigated with this method.
644	embodied	2011	Santos, M; Uppal, N; Butti, C; Wicinski, B; Schmeidler, J; Giannakopoulos, P; Heinsen, H; Schmitz, C; Hof, PR	von Economo neurons in autism: A stereologic study of the frontoinsular cortex in children	BRAIN RESEARCH	The presence of von Economo neurons (VENs) in the frontoinsular cortex (FI) has been linked to a possible role in the integration of bodily feelings, emotional regulation, and goal-directed behaviors. They have also been implicated in fast intuitive evaluation of complex social situations. Several studies reported a decreased number of VENs in neuropsychiatric diseases in which the "embodied" dimension of social cognition is markedly affected. Neuropathological analyses of VENs in patients with autism are few and did not report alterations in VEN numbers. In this study we re-evaluated the possible presence of changes in VEN numbers and their relationship with the diagnosis of autism. Using a stereologic approach we quantified VENs and pyramidal neurons in layer V of FI in postmortem brains of four young patients with autism and three comparably aged controls. We also investigated possible autism-related differences in FI layer V volume. Patients with autism consistently had a significantly higher ratio of VENs to pyramidal neurons (p=0.020) than control subjects. This result may reflect the presence of neuronal overgrowth in young patients with autism and may also be related to alterations in migration, cortical lamination, and apoptosis. Higher numbers of VENs in the FI of patients with autism may also underlie a heightened interoception, described in some clinical observations. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
645	embodied	2010	Eitan, Z; Timmers, R	Beethoven's last piano sonata and those who follow crocodiles: Cross-domain mappings of auditory pitch in a musical context	COGNITION	Though auditory pitch is customarily mapped in Western cultures onto spatial verticality (high-low), both anthropological reports and cognitive studies suggest that pitch may be mapped onto a wide variety of other domains. We collected a total number of 35 pitch mappings and investigated in four experiments how these mappings are used and structured. In particular, we inquired (1) how Western subjects apply Western and non-Western metaphors to "high" and "low" pitches, (2) whether mappings applied in an abstract conceptual task are similarly applied by listeners to actual music, (3) how mappings of spatial height relate to these pitch mappings, and (4) how mappings of "high" and "low" pitch associate with other dimensions, in particular quantity, size, intensity and valence. The results show strong agreement among Western participants in applying familiar and unfamiliar metaphors for pitch, in both an abstract, conceptual task (Exp. 1) and in a music listening task (Exp. 2), indicating that diverse cross-domain mappings for pitch exist latently besides the common verticality metaphor. Furthermore. limited overlap between mappings of spatial height and pitch height was found, suggesting that, the Ubiquity of the verticality metaphor in Western usage notwithstanding, cross-domain pitch mappings are largely independent of that metaphor, and seem to be based upon other underlying dimensions. Part of the discrepancy between spatial height and pitch height is that, for pitch, "up" is not necessarily "more," nor is it necessarily "good." High pitch is only "more" for height, intensity and brightness. It is "less" for mass, size and quantity. We discuss implications of these findings for music and speech prosody, and their relevance to notions of embodied cognition and of cross-domain magnitude representation. (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
646	embodied	2008	Rietveld, E	Situated Normativity: The Normative Aspect of Embodied Cognition in Unreflective Action	MIND	In everyday life we often act adequately, yet without deliberation. For instance, we immediately obtain and maintain an appropriate distance from others in an elevator. The notion of normativity implied here is a very basic one, namely distinguishing adequate from inadequate, correct from incorrect, or better from worse in the context of a particular situation. In the first part of this paper I investigate such 'situated normativity' by focusing on unreflective expert action. More particularly, I use Wittgenstein's examples of craftsmen (tailors and architects) absorbed in action to introduce situated normativity. Situated normativity can be understood as the normative aspect of embodied cognition in unreflective skillful action. I develop Wittgenstein's insight that a peculiar type of affective behaviour, 'directed discontent', is essential for getting things right without reflection. Directed discontent is a reaction of appreciation in action and is introduced as a paradigmatic expression of situated normativity. In the second part I discuss Wittgenstein's ideas on the normativity of what he calls 'blind' rule-following and the 'bedrock' of immediate action. What matters for understanding the normativity of (even 'blind') rule-following, is not that one has the capacity for linguistic articulation or reflection but that one is reliably participating in a communal custom. In the third part I further investigate the complex relationships between unreflective skillful action, perception, emotion, and normativity. Part of this entails an account of the link between normativity at the level of the expert's socio-cultural practice and the individual's situated and lived normativity.
647	embodied	2008	Clark, A	Pressing the flesh: A tension in the study of the embodied, embedded mind?	PHILOSOPHY AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL RESEARCH	Mind, it is increasingly fashionable to assert, is an intrinsically embodied and environmentally embedded phenomenon. But there is a potential tension between two strands of thought prominent in this recent literature. One of those strands depicts the body as special, and the fine details of a creature's embodiment as a major constraint on the nature of its mind: a kind of new-wave body-centrism. The other depicts the body as just one element in a kind of equal-partners dance between brain, body and world, with the nature of the mind fixed by the overall balance thus achieved: a kind of extended functionalism (now with an even broader canvas for multiple realizability than ever before). The present paper displays the tension, scouts the space of possible responses, and ends by attempting to specify what the body actually needs to be, given its complex role in these recent debates.
648	embodied	2010	Ebert, JP; Wegner, DM	Time warp: Authorship shapes the perceived timing of actions and events	CONSCIOUSNESS AND COGNITION	It has been proposed that inferring personal authorship for an event gives rise to intentional binding, a perceptual illusion in which one's action and inferred effect seem closer in time than they Otherwise Would (Haggard, Clark, & Kalogeras, 2002). Using a novel, naturalistic paradigm. we conducted two experiments to test this hypothesis and examine the relationship between binding and self-reported authorship In both experiments, an important authorship indicator - consistency between one's action and a subsequent event - was manipulated, and its effects on binding and self-reported authorship were measured Results showed that action-event consistency enhanced both binding and self-reported authorship, supporting the hypothesis that binding arises from an inference of authorship At the same time, evidence for a dissociation emerged. with consistency having a more robust effect on self-reports than on binding Taken together. these results suggest that binding and self-reports reveal different aspects of the sense Of authorship (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved
649	embodied	1999	Zwaan, RA	Embodied cognition, perceptual symbols, and situation models	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	It is difficult to see how current models of discourse comprehension can be "scaled up" to account for the rich situation models that may be constructed during naturalistic language comprehension, as when readers are immersed in the story world. Recent proposals about embodied cognition and perceptual symbols, such as those put forth by Glenberg and Robertson and by Roth might offer a framework to address this problem more successfully than traditional approaches that rely on amodal symbol systems.
650	embodied	2012	Lee, SWS; Schwarz, N	Bidirectionality, Mediation, and Moderation of Metaphorical Effects: The Embodiment of Social Suspicion and Fishy Smells	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	Metaphorical effects are commonly assumed to be unidirectional, running from concrete to abstract domains but not vice versa. Noting that metaphorical effects are often found to be bidirectional, we explore how they may be mediated and moderated according to the principles of knowledge accessibility and applicability. Using the example of "something smells fishy" (a metaphorical expression of social suspicion), 7 experiments tested for the behavioral effects of fishy smells on social suspicion among English speakers, the reversed effects of suspicion on smell labeling and detection, and the underlying mechanism. Incidental exposure to fishy smells induced suspicion and undermined cooperation in trust-based economic exchanges in a trust game (Study 1) and a public goods game (Study 2). Socially induced suspicion enhanced the correct labeling of fishy smells, but not other smells (Studies 3a-3c), an effect that could be mediated by the accessibility and moderated by the applicability of metaphorically associated concepts (Studies 4-6). Suspicion also heightened detection sensitivity to low concentrations of fishy smells (Study 7). Bidirectionality, mediation, and moderation of metaphorical effects have important theoretical implications for integrating known wisdom from social cognition with new insights into the embodied and metaphorical nature of human thinking. These findings also highlight the need for exploring the cultural variability and origin of metaphorical knowledge.
651	embodied	2008	Andres, M; Olivier, E; Badets, A	Actions, Words, and Numbers: A Motor Contribution to Semantic Processing?	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Recent findings in neuroscience challenge the view that the motor system is exclusively dedicated to the control of actions, and it has been suggested that it may contribute critically to conceptual processes such as those involved in language and number representation. The aim of this review is to address this issue by illustrating some interactions between the motor system and the processing of words and numbers. First, we detail functional brain imaging studies suggesting that motor circuits may be recruited to represent the meaning of action-related words. Second, we summarize a series of experiments demonstrating some interference between the size of grip used to grasp objects and the magnitude processing of words or numbers. Third, we report data suggestive of a common representation of numbers and finger movements in the adult brain, a possible trace of the finger-counting strategies used in childhood. Altogether, these studies indicate that the motor system interacts with several aspects of word and number representations. Future research should determine whether these findings reflect a causal role of the motor system in the organization of semantic knowledge.
652	embodied	2000	Tomasello, M	Culture and cognitive development	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Human beings are biologically adapted for culture in ways that other primates are not. The difference can be clearly seen when the social learning skills of human and their nearest primate relatives are systematically compared. The human adaptation for culture begins to make itself manifest in human ontogeny at around 1 year of age as human infants come to understand other persons as intentional agents like the self and so engage in joint attentional interactions with them. This understanding then enables young children (a) to employ some uniquely powerful forms of cultural learning to acquire the accumulated wisdom of their cultures, especially as embodied in language, and also (b) to comprehend their worlds in some uniquely powerful ways involving perspectivally based symbolic representations.
653	embodied	2013	Glenberg, AM; Witt, JK; Metcalfe, J	From the Revolution to Embodiment: 25 Years of Cognitive Psychology	PERSPECTIVES ON PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	In 1988, the cognitive revolution had become institutionalized: Cognition was the manipulation of abstract symbols by rules. But, much like institutionalized political parties, some of the ideas were becoming stale. Where was action? Where was the self? How could cognition be smoothly integrated with emotions, with social psychology, with development, with clinical analyses? Around that time, thinkers in linguistics, philosophy, artificial intelligence, biology, and psychology were formulating the idea that just as overt behavior depends on the specifics of the body in action, so might cognition depend on the body. Here we characterize (some would say caricature) the strengths and weaknesses of cognitive psychology of that era, and then we describe what has come to be called embodied cognition: how cognition arises through the dynamic interplay of brain controlling bodily action controlling perception, which changes the brain. We focus on the importance of action and how action shapes perception, the self, and language. Having the body in action as a central consideration for theories of cognition promises, we believe, to help unify psychology.
654	embodied	2011	Pecher, D; Boot, I; Van Dantzig, S	ABSTRACT CONCEPTS: SENSORY-MOTOR GROUNDING, METAPHORS, AND BEYOND	PSYCHOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MOTIVATION: ADVANCES IN RESEARCH AND THEORY, VOL 54	In the last decade many researchers have obtained evidence for the idea that cognition shares processing mechanisms with perception and action. Most of the evidence supporting the grounded cognition framework focused on representations of concrete concepts, which leaves open the question how abstract concepts are grounded in sensory-motor processing. One promising idea is that people simulate concrete situations and introspective experiences to represent abstract concepts [Barsalou, L. W., & Wiemer-Hastings, K. (2005). Situating abstract concepts. In D. Pecher, & R. A. Zwaan (Eds.), Grounding cognition: The role of perception and action in memory, language, and thinking (pp. 129-163). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.], although this has not yet been investigated a lot. A second idea, which more researchers have investigated, is that people use metaphorical mappings from concrete to abstract concepts [Lakoff, G., & Johnson, M. (1980). Metaphors we live by. Chicago: Chicago University Press.]. According to this conceptual metaphor theory, image schemas structure and provide sensory-motor grounding for abstract concepts. Although there is evidence that people automatically activate image schemas when they process abstract concepts, we argue that situations are also needed to fully represent meaning.
655	embodied	2011	Risen, JL; Critcher, CR	Visceral Fit: While in a Visceral State, Associated States of the World Seem More Likely	JOURNAL OF PERSONALITY AND SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	We propose that visceral states can influence beliefs through "visceral fit": People will judge states of the world associated with their current visceral experience as more likely. We found that warmth influenced belief in global warming (Studies 1-3) and that thirst impacted forecasts of drought and desertification (Study 5). These effects emerged in a naturalistic setting (Study 1) and in experimental lab settings (Studies 2, 3, and 5). Studies 2-6 distinguished between 3 mechanistic accounts: temperature as information (Studies 2 and 3), conceptual accessibility (Studies 4 and 5), and fluency of simulation (Studies 6a and 6b). Studies 2 and 3 ruled out the temperature as information account. Feeling warm enhanced belief in global warming even when temperature was manipulated in an uninformative indoor setting, when participants' attention was first directed to the indoor temperature, and when participants' belief about the current outdoor temperature was statistically controlled. Studies 4 and 5 ruled out conceptual accessibility as the key mediator: Priming the corresponding concepts did not produce analogous effects on judgment. Studies 6a and 6b used a causal chain design and found support for a "simulational fluency" account. Participants experiencing the visceral state of warmth constructed more fluent mental representations of hot (vs. cold) outdoor images, and those who were led to construe the same hot outdoor images more fluently believed more in global warming. Together, the results suggest that visceral states can influence one's beliefs by making matching states of the world easier to simulate and therefore seem more likely.
656	embodied	2011	Louwerse, MM	Symbol Interdependency in Symbolic and Embodied Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Whether computational algorithms such as latent semantic analysis (LSA) can both extract meaning from language and advance theories of human cognition has become a topic of debate in cognitive science, whereby accounts of symbolic cognition and embodied cognition are often contrasted. Albeit for different reasons, in both accounts the importance of statistical regularities in linguistic surface structure tends to be underestimated. The current article gives an overview of the symbolic and embodied cognition accounts and shows how meaning induction attributed to a specific statistical process or to activation of embodied representations should be attributed to language itself. Specifically, the performance of LSA can be attributed to the linguistic surface structure, more than special characteristics of the algorithm, and embodiment findings attributed to perceptual simulations can be explained by distributional linguistic information.
657	embodied	2008	Louwerse, MM	Embodied relations are encoded in language	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	Studies of embodied cognition have shown that comprehenders process iconic word pairs (attic-basement) more quickly than reverse-iconic pairs (basement-attic) when the pairs are presented to them in a vertical spatial arrangement. This effect disappears in a horizontal spatial arrangement. This has been claimed to show that comprehenders perceptually simulate these word pairs. A complementary explanation is that linguistic conceptualizations (word order) reflect prelinguistic conceptualizations (spatial iconicity), whereby comprehenders use these linguistic conceptualizations in the comprehension process. The results of corpus linguistic, rating, and semantic judgment studies reported here supported this explanation: Iconic word pairs were more frequent than reverse-iconic word pairs; frequency of word order explained response times in a semantic judgment task better than iconicity did; and when iconic word pairs were presented in a horizontal arrangement, the iconicity effect disappeared, but the word order effect remained. These findings show that spatial iconicity patterns are reflected in word order patterns and that comprehenders are sensitive to these word order patterns in language-processing tasks.
658	embodied	2008	Schilbach, L; Eickhoff, SB; Mojzisch, A; Vogeley, K	What's in a smile? Neural correlates of facial embodiment during social interaction	SOCIAL NEUROSCIENCE	Previous investigations have shown that the perception of socially relevant facial expressions, indicating someone else's intention to communicate (e.g., smiling), correlate with increased activity in zygomaticus; major muscle regardless of whether the facial expressions seen are directed towards the human observer or toward someone else (Mojzisch et al., 2006). These spontaneous, involuntary reactions have been described as facial mimicry and seem to be of considerable importance for successful interpersonal communication. We investigated whether specific neural substrates underlie these responses by performing a finite impulse response (FIR) analysis of an experiment using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the perception of socially relevant facial expressions (Schilbach et al., 2006). This analysis demonstrates that differential neural activity can be detected relative to the FIR time window in which facial mimicry occurs. The neural network found includes but extends beyond classical motor regions (face motor area) recruiting brain regions known to be involved in social cognition. This network is proposed to subserve the integration of emotional and action-related processes as part of a pre-reflective, embodied reaction to the perception of socially relevant facial expressions as well as a reflective representation of self and other.
659	embodied	2011	Neal, DT; Chartrand, TL	Embodied Emotion Perception: Amplifying and Dampening Facial Feedback Modulates Emotion Perception Accuracy	SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PERSONALITY SCIENCE	How do we recognize the emotions other people are feeling? One source of information may be facial feedback signals generated when we automatically mimic the expressions displayed on others' faces. Supporting this "embodied emotion perception," dampening (Experiment 1) and amplifying (Experiment 2) facial feedback signals, respectively, impaired and improved people's ability to read others' facial emotions. In Experiment 1, emotion perception was significantly impaired in people who had received a cosmetic procedure that reduces muscular feedback from the face (Botox) compared to a procedure that does not reduce feedback (a dermal filler). Experiment 2 capitalized on the fact that feedback signals are enhanced when muscle contractions meet resistance. Accordingly, when the skin was made resistant to underlying muscle contractions via a restricting gel, emotion perception improved, and did so only for emotion judgments that theoretically could benefit from facial feedback.
660	embodied	2014	Fischer, MH; Shaki, S	Spatial associations in numerical cognition-From single digits to arithmetic	QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY	The literature on spatial associations during number processing is dominated by the SNARC (spatial-numerical association of response codes) effect. We describe spatial biases found for single digits and pairs of numbers, first in the "original" speeded parity task and then extending the scope to encompass different tasks, a range of measures, and various populations. Then we review theoretical accounts before surveying the emerging evidence for similar spatial associations during mental arithmetic. We conclude that the mental number line hypothesis and an embodied approach are useful frameworks for further studies.
661	embodied	2010	Gramann, K; Gwin, JT; Bigdely-Shamlo, N; Ferris, DP; Makeig, S	Visual evoked responses during standing and walking	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	Human cognition has been shaped both by our body structure and by its complex interactions with its environment. Our cognition is thus inextricably linked to our own and others' motor behavior. To model brain activity associated with natural cognition, we propose recording the concurrent brain dynamics and body movements of human subjects performing normal actions. Here we tested the feasibility of such a mobile brain/body (MoBI) imaging approach by recording high-density electroencephalographic (EEG) activity and body movements of subjects standing or walking on a treadmill while performing a visual oddball response task. Independent component analysis of the EEG data revealed visual event-related potentials that during standing, slow walking, and fast walking did not differ across movement conditions, demonstrating the viability of recording brain activity accompanying cognitive processes during whole body movement. Non-invasive and relatively low-cost MoBI studies of normal, motivated actions might improve understanding of interactions between brain and body dynamics leading to more complete biological models of cognition.
662	embodied	2009	Froese, T; Ziemke, T	Enactive artificial intelligence: Investigating the systemic organization of life and mind	ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The embodied and situated approach to artificial intelligence (Al) has matured and become a viable alternative to traditional computationalist approaches with respect to the practical goal of building artificial agents, which can behave in a robust and flexible manner under changing real-world conditions. Nevertheless, some concerns have recently been raised with regard to the sufficiency of current embodied Al for advancing our scientific understanding of intentional agency. While from an engineering or computer science perspective this limitation might not be relevant, it is of course highly relevant for Al researchers striving to build accurate models of natural cognition. We argue that the biological foundations of enactive cognitive science can provide the conceptual tools that are needed to diagnose more clearly the shortcomings of current embodied Al. In particular, taking an enactive perspective points to the need for Al to take seriously the organismic roots of autonomous agency and sense-making. We identify two necessary systemic requirements, namely constitutive autonomy and adaptivity, which lead us to introduce two design principles of enactive Al. It is argued that the development of such enactive Al poses a significant challenge to current methodologies. However, it also provides a promising way of eventually overcoming the current limitations of embodied Al, especially in terms of providing fuller models of natural embodied cognition. Finally, some practical implications and examples of the two design principles of enactive Al are also discussed. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
663	embodied	2008	Tomasino, B; Fink, GR; Sparing, R; Dafotakis, M; Weiss, PH	Action verbs and the primary motor cortex: A comparative TMS study of silent reading, frequency judgments, and motor imagery	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the hand area of the left primary motor cortex or, as a control, to the vertex (STIMULATION: TMS(M1) vs. TMS(vertex)) while right-handed volunteers silently read verbs related to hand actions. We examined three different tasks and time points for stimulation within the same experiment: subjects indicated with their left foot when they (i) had finished reading, (ii) had judged whether the corresponding movement involved a hand rotation after simulating the hand movement, and (iii) had judged whether they would frequently encounter the action verb in a newspaper (TASK: silent reading, motor imagery, and frequency judgment). Response times were compared between TMS(M1) and TMS(vertex) both applied at different time points after stimulus onset (DELAY: 150, 300, 450, 600, and 750 ms). TMS(M1) differentially modulated task performance: there was a significant facilitatory effect of TMS(M1) for the imagery task only (about 88 ms), with subjects responding about 10% faster (compared to TMS(vertex)). In contrast, response times for silent reading and frequency judgments were unaffected by TMS(M1). No differential effect of the time point of TMS(M1) was observed. The differential effect of TMS(M1) when subjects performed a motor imagery task (relative to performing silent reading or frequency judgments with the same set of verbs) suggests that the primary motor cortex is critically involved in processing action verbs only when subjects are simulating the corresponding movement. This task-dependent effect of hand motor cortex TMS on the processing of hand-related action verbs is discussed with respect to the notion of embodied cognition and the associationist theory. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
664	embodied	2000	Markman, AB; Dietrich, E	Extending the classical view of representation	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Representation has always been a central part of models in cognitive science, but this idea has come under attack. Researchers advocating the alternative approaches of perceptual symbol systems, situated action, embodied cognition, and dynamical systems have argued against central assumptions of the classical representational approach to mind. We review the core assumptions of the representational view and these four suggested alternatives. We argue that representation should remain a core part of cognitive science, but that the insights from these alternative approaches must incorporated into models of cognitive processing.
665	embodied	2013	Thill, S; Caligiore, D; Borghi, AM; Ziemke, T; Baldassarre, G	Theories and computational models of affordance and mirror systems: An integrative review	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Neuroscientific and psychological data suggest a close link between affordance and mirror systems in the brain. However, we still lack a full understanding of both the individual systems and their interactions. Here, we propose that the architecture and functioning of the two systems is best understood in terms of two challenges faced by complex organisms, namely: (a) the need to select among multiple affordances and possible actions dependent on context and high-level goals and (b) the exploitation of the advantages deriving from a hierarchical organisation of behaviour based on actions and action-goals. We first review and analyse the psychological and neuroscientific literature on the mechanisms and processes organisms use to deal with these challenges. We then analyse existing computational models thereof. Finally we present the design of a computational framework that integrates the reviewed knowledge. The framework can be used both as a theoretical guidance to interpret empirical data and design new experiments, and to design computational models addressing specific problems debated in the literature. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
666	embodied	2012	Herbert, BM; Pollatos, O	The Body in the Mind: On the Relationship Between Interoception and Embodiment	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	The processing, representation, and perception of bodily signals (interoception) plays an important role for human behavior. Theories of embodied cognition hold that higher cognitive processes operate on perceptual symbols and that concept use involves reactivations of the sensory-motor states that occur during experience with the world. Similarly, activation of interoceptive representations and meta-representations of bodily signals supporting interoceptive awareness are profoundly associated with emotional experience and cognitive functions. This article gives an overview over present findings and models on interoception and mechanisms of embodiment and highlights its relevance for disorders that are suggested to represent a translation deficit of bodily states into subjective feelings and self-awareness.
667	embodied	2007	Ignatow, G	Theories of embodied knowledge: New directions for cultural and cognitive sociology?	JOURNAL FOR THE THEORY OF SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR	Sociological propositions about the workings of cognition are rarely specified or tested, but are of central relevance to studies of culture, social judgment, and social movements. This paper draws out lessons of recent work from sociological theory, cognitive science, psychology, and neuroscience on the embodied nature of knowledge and thought, and develops implications of these lessons for cultural and cognitive sociology. Knowledge ought to be conceived of as fundamentally embodied, because sensory information is a fundamental component of experience as it is stored in long-term memory, and because bodily responses and intuitions often precede reflexive or strategic thought. I argue that the challenge of embodied knowledge for cultural sociology is threefold: to develop cultural theories of motivation; to specify the ways in which the body structures discourses endogenously; and to specify how embodied motivations and embodied discourses interact.
668	embodied	2011	Casasanto, D	Different Bodies, Different Minds: The Body Specificity of Language and Thought	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Do people with different kinds of bodies think differently? According to the body-specificity hypothesis (Casasanto, 2009), they should. In this article, I review evidence that right-and left-handers, who perform actions in systematically different ways, use correspondingly different areas of the brain for imagining actions and representing the meanings of action verbs. Beyond concrete actions, the way people use their hands also influences the way they represent abstract ideas with positive and negative emotional valence like "goodness," "honesty," and "intelligence" and how they communicate about these ideas in spontaneous speech and gesture. Changing how people use their right and left hands can cause them to think differently, suggesting that motoric differences between right-and left-handers are not merely correlated with cognitive differences. Body-specific patterns of motor experience shape the way we think, feel, communicate, and make decisions.
669	embodied	2010	Merritt, DJ; Casasanto, D; Brannon, EM	Do monkeys think in metaphors? Representations of space and time in monkeys and humans	COGNITION	Research on the relationship between the representation of space and time has produced two contrasting proposals. ATOM posits that space and time are represented via a common magnitude system, suggesting a symmetrical relationship between space and time. According to metaphor theory, however, representations of time depend on representations of space asymmetrically. Previous findings in humans have supported metaphor theory. Here, we investigate the relationship between time and space in a nonverbal species, by testing whether non-human primates show space-time interactions consistent with metaphor theory or with ATOM. We tested two rhesus monkeys and 16 adult humans in a nonverbal task that assessed the influence of an irrelevant dimension (time or space) on a relevant dimension (space or time). In humans, spatial extent had a large effect on time judgments whereas time had a small effect on spatial judgments. In monkeys, both spatial and temporal manipulations showed large bi-directional effects on judgments. In contrast to humans, spatial manipulations in monkeys did not produce a larger effect on temporal judgments than the reverse. Thus, consistent with previous findings, human adults showed asymmetrical space-time interactions that were predicted by metaphor theory. In contrast, monkeys showed patterns that were more consistent with ATOM. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
670	embodied	2009	Cook, SW; Tanenhaus, MK	Embodied communication: Speakers' gestures affect listeners' actions	COGNITION	We explored how speakers and listeners use hand gestures as a source of perceptual-motor information during naturalistic communication. After solving the Tower of Hanoi task either with real objects or on a computer, speakers explained the task to listeners. Speakers' hand gestures, but not their speech, reflected properties of the particular objects and the actions that they had previously used to solve the task. Speakers who solved the problem with real objects used more grasping handshapes and produced more curved trajectories during the explanation. Listeners who observed explanations from speakers who had previously solved the problem with real objects subsequently treated computer objects more like real objects; their mouse trajectories revealed that they lifted the objects in conjunction with moving them sideways, and this behavior was related to the particular gestures that were observed. These findings demonstrate that hand gestures are a reliable source of perceptual-motor information during human communication. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
671	embodied	2011	Fischer, U; Moeller, K; Bientzle, M; Cress, U; Nuerk, HC	Sensori-motor spatial training of number magnitude representation	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	An adequately developed spatial representation of number magnitude is associated with children's general arithmetic achievement. Therefore, a new spatial-numerical training program for kindergarten children was developed in which presentation and response were associated with a congruent spatial numerical representation. In particular, children responded by a full-body spatial movement on a digital dance mat in a magnitude comparison task. This spatial-numerical training was more effective than a non-spatial control training in enhancing children's performance on a number line estimation task and a subtest of a standardized mathematical achievement battery (TEDI-MATH). A mediation analysis suggested that these improvements were driven by an improvement of children's mental number line representation and not only by unspecific factors such as attention or motivation. These results suggest a benefit of spatial numerical associations. Rather than being a merely associated covariate, they work as an independently manipulated variable which is functional for numerical development.
672	embodied	2010	Spunt, RP; Falk, EB; Lieberman, MD	Dissociable Neural Systems Support Retrieval of How and Why Action Knowledge	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	In everyday discourse, people typically represent actions in one of two ways: how they are performed or why they are performed. In the present study, we determined the neural systems that support these natural modes of representing actions. Participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while identifying how and why people perform various familiar actions. Identifying how actions are performed produced activity in premotor areas that support the execution of actions and in higher-order visual areas that support the perception of action-related objects; this finding supports an embodied view of action knowledge. However, identifying why actions are performed preferentially engaged areas of the brain associated with representing and reasoning about mental states; these areas were right temporoparietal junction, precuneus, dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, and posterior superior temporal sulcus. Our results suggest that why action knowledge is not sufficiently constituted by information in motor and visual systems, but requires a system for representing states of mind, which do not have reliable motor correlates or visual appearance.
673	embodied	2006	Holt, LE; Beilock, SL	Expertise and its embodiment: Examining the impact of sensorimotor skill expertise on the representation of action-related text	PSYCHONOMIC BULLETIN & REVIEW	In two experiments, we explored how novice and expert athletes represent the everyday and sport-specific objects and actions that they read about Novice and expert ice hockey players (Experiment 1) and football players (Experiment 2) read sentences describing everyday or sport-specific situations and then judged whether a pictured item (either matching the action implied in the previous sentence or not) was mentioned in the preceding sentence. The sentences in Experiment 1 consisted of everyday and hockey-specific scenarios. The sentences in Experiment 2 depicted football scenarios implying football-specific or non-football-specific actions anyone might perform. Everyone responded most quickly to items that matched the sentence-implied actions for everyday and non-sport-specific actions. Only athletes showed this effect for their respective sport-specific scenarios. Differentiating between the same item in different action orientations is thought to be driven by embodied knowledge containing the sensorimotor characteristics of what one is reading about We show that possessing this type of representation depends on experience interacting with objects and performing the actions in question.
674	embodied	2014	Maes, PJ; Leman, M; Palmer, C; Wanderley, MM	Action-based effects on music perception	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The classical, disembodied approach to music cognition conceptualizes action and perception as separate, peripheral processes. In contrast, embodied accounts of music cognition emphasize the central role of the close coupling of action and perception. It is a commonly established fact that perception spurs action tendencies. We present a theoretical framework that captures the ways in which the human motor system and its actions can reciprocally influence the perception of music. The cornerstone of this framework is the common coding theory, postulating a representational overlap in the brain between the planning, the execution, and the perception of movement. The integration of action and perception in so-called internal models is explained as a result of associative learning processes. Characteristic of internal models is that they allow intended or perceived sensory states to be transferred into corresponding motor commands (inverse modeling), and vice versa, to predict the sensory outcomes of planned actions (forward modeling). Embodied accounts typically refer to inverse modeling to explain action effects on music perception (Leman, 2007). We extend this account by pinpointing forward modeling as an alternative mechanism by which action can modulate perception. We provide an extensive overview of recent empirical evidence in support of this idea. Additionally, we demonstrate that motor dysfunctions can cause perceptual disabilities, supporting the main idea of the paper that the human motor system plays a functional role in auditory perception. The finding that music perception is shaped by the human motor system and its actions suggests that the musical mind is highly embodied. However, we advocate for a more radical approach to embodied (music) cognition in the sense that it needs to be considered as a dynamical process, in which aspects of action, perception, introspection, and social interaction are of crucial importance.
675	embodied	2013	Brockmole, JR; Davoli, CC; Abrams, RA; Witt, JK	The World Within Reach: Effects of Hand Posture and Tool Use on Visual Cognition	CURRENT DIRECTIONS IN PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Our mental processing of the visual world is not independent of our physical actions within it. Placing objects near one's hands and interacting with objects using tools can enhance visual perception, bias and prolong the allocation of attention, and distort memory in systematic ways. This suggests that the world within our reach is cognitively different from the world beyond reach. In this review, we examine the evidence supporting this conclusion, focusing on the cognitive and neural mechanisms that underlie these effects, the parameters that may control their emergence, and their potential practical applications.
676	embodied	2008	Siakaluk, PD; Pexman, PM; Aguilera, L; Owen, WJ; Sears, CR	Evidence for the activation of sensorimotor information during visual word recognition: The body-object interaction effect	COGNITION	We examined the effects of sensorimotor experience in two visual word recognition tasks. Body-object interaction (BOI) ratings were collected for a large set of words. These ratings assess perceptions of the ease with which a human body can physically interact with a word's referent. A set of high BOI words (e.g., mask) and a set of low BOI words (e.g., ship) were created, matched on imageability and concreteness. Facilitatory BOI effects were observed in lexical decision and phonological lexical decision tasks: responses were faster for high BOI words than for low BOI words. We discuss how our findings may be accounted for by (a) semantic feedback within the visual word recognition system, and (b) an embodied view of cognition (e.g., Barsalou's perceptual symbol systems theory), which proposes that semantic knowledge is grounded in sensorimotor interactions with the environment. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
677	embodied	2010	Spengler, S; von Cramon, DY; Brass, M	Resisting motor mimicry: Control of imitation involves processes central to social cognition in patients with frontal and temporo-parietal lesions	SOCIAL NEUROSCIENCE	Perception and execution of actions share a common representational and neural substrate and thereby facilitate unintentional motor mimicry. Controlling automatic imitation is therefore a crucial requirement of such a oshared representationalo system. Based on previous findings from neuroimaging, we suggest that resisting motor mimicry recruits the same underlying computational mechanisms also involved in higher-level social cognitive processing, such as self - other differentiation and the representation of mental states. The aim of the present study was to investigate on a behavioral level whether there is a functional association between the inhibition of imitation and tasks, assessing the understanding of mental states and of different perspectives of self and other. In a sample of neuropsychological patients with frontal lesions, a correlation between the ability for mental state attribution and the control of imitation was found, with a similar effect in the control group. Temporo-parietal lesioned patients showed a highly significant correlation between imitative control and visual and cognitive perspective-taking. Even after controlling for executive functions, the results remained significant, indicating the functional specificity of this relationship. These findings provide new insight into the functional processes underlying the control of shared representations and suggest a novel link between embodied and higher-level social cognition.
678	embodied	2008	Arbib, MA	From grasp to language: Embodied concepts and the challenge of abstraction	JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-PARIS	The discovery of mirror neurons in the macaque monkey and the discovery of a homologous "mirror system for grasping" in Broca's area in the human brain has revived the gestural origins theory of the evolution of the human capability for language, enriching it with the suggestion that mirror neurons provide the neurological core for this evolution. However, this notion of "mirror neuron support for the transition from grasp to language" has been worked out in very different ways in the Mirror System Hypothesis model [Arbib, M.A., 2005a. From monkey-like action recognition to human language: an evolutionary framework for neurolinguistics (with commentaries and author's response). Behavioral and Brain Sciences 28, 105-167; Rizzolatti, G., Arbib, M.A., 1998. Language within our grasp. Trends in Neuroscience 21(5),188-194] and the Embodied Concept model [Gallese, V., Lakoff, G., 2005. The brain's concepts: the role of the sensory-motor system in reason and language. Cognitive Neuropsychology 22, 455-479]. The present paper provides a critique of the latter to enrich analysis of the former, developing the role of schema theory [Arbib, M.A., 1981. Perceptual structures and distributed motor control. In: Brooks, V.B. (Ed.), Handbook of Physiology - The Nervous System II. Motor Control. American Physiological Society, pp.1449-1480]. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
679	embodied	2007	Maxwell, JS; Davidson, RJ	Emotion as motion - Asymmetries in approach and avoidant actions	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	To emote literally means to move or prepare for action. A large body of research indicates that flexor and extensor movements are conditionally associated with approach- and avoidance-related motivations. It has also been widely argued that approach and avoidant motivations are asymmetrically instantiated in the left and right hemispheres, respectively. Nevertheless, to date, these literatures remain largely separate. In the present investigation, flexor and extensor movements that were visuospatially contextualized as being directed toward the self and away from the self were observed to be asymmetrically represented in the "approach" and "avoidance" hemispheres. Moreover, this pattern of hemispheric specialization was manifested to a greater degree the higher participants' self-reported level of daily positive affect and the lower their self-reported level of dispositional anxiety. Collectively, these findings have direct implications for models of embodied emotional and perceptual processing, as well as for investigations of individual differences in emotional disposition.
680	embodied	2012	Lakens, D	Polarity Correspondence in Metaphor Congruency Effects: Structural Overlap Predicts Categorization Times for Bipolar Concepts Presented in Vertical Space	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	Previous research has shown that words presented on metaphor congruent locations (e.g., positive words UP on the screen and negative words DOWN on the screen) are categorized faster than words presented on metaphor incongruent locations (e.g., positive words DOWN and negative words UP). These findings have been explained in terms of an interference effect: The meaning associated with UP and DOWN vertical space can automatically interfere with the categorization of words with a metaphorically incongruent meaning. The current studies test an alternative explanation for the interaction between the vertical position of abstract concepts and the speed with which these stimuli are categorized. Research on polarity differences (basic asymmetries in the way dimensions are processed) predicts that +polar endpoints of dimensions (e.g., positive, moral, UP) are categorized faster than polar endpoints of dimensions (e.g., negative, immoral, DOWN). Furthermore, the polarity correspondence principle predicts that stimuli where polarities correspond (e.g., positive words presented UP) provide an additional processing benefit compared to stimuli where polarities do not correspond (e.g., negative words presented UP). A meta-analysis (Study 1) shows that a polarity account provides a better explanation of reaction time patterns in previous studies than an interference explanation. An experiment (Study 2) reveals that controlling for the polarity benefit of +polar words compared to polar words did not only remove the main effect of word polarity but also the interaction between word meaning and vertical position due to polarity correspondence. These results reveal that metaphor congruency effects should not be interpreted as automatic associations between vertical locations and word meaning but instead are more parsimoniously explained by their structural overlap in polarities.
681	embodied	2010	Spaulding, S	Embodied Cognition and Mindreading	MIND & LANGUAGE	Recently, philosophers and psychologists defending the embodied cognition research program have offered arguments against mindreading as a general model of our social understanding. The embodied cognition arguments are of two kinds: those that challenge the developmental picture of mindreading and those that challenge the alleged ubiquity of mindreading. Together, these two kinds of arguments, if successful, would present a serious challenge to the standard account of human social understanding. In this paper, I examine the strongest of these embodied cognition arguments and argue that mindreading approaches can withstand the best of these arguments from embodied cognition.
682	embodied	2002	Roth, WM; Lawless, D	Scientific investigations, metaphorical gestures, and the emergence of abstract scientific concepts	LEARNING AND INSTRUCTION	Where anthropological and psychological studies have shown that gestures are a central feature of communication and cognition, little is known about the role of gesture in learning and instruction. Drawing from a large database on student learning, we show that when students en-acre in conversations in the presence of material objects, these objects provide a phenomenal ground against which students can enact metaphorical gestures that embody (give a body to) entities that are conceptual and abstract. In such instances, gestures are often subsequently replaced by an increasing reliance upon the verbal mode of communication. If gestures constitute a bridge between experiences in the physical world and abstract conceptual language, as we conjecture here, our study has significant implications for both learning and instruction. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
683	embodied	2001	Roth, WM	Situating cognition	JOURNAL OF THE LEARNING SCIENCES	In this article, I describe an epistemological framework and an associated research method. This framework focuses on the structural relations of individual and setting as experienced by the individual. Due to the fact that individuals may be perceptually attuned to phenomena at different ranges and time scales, researchers who want to understand cognition have to follow this changing field of attention. My analysis consists in zooming to identify patterns that simultaneously occur at multiple levels. Zooming, therefore, embodies a reflexive relation to different figure-ground relations in the attentional field of the individuals I study. To exemplify my approach to research, I use data from a physics classroom where students learn to explain computer-animated microworld events in terms of Newtonian theory.
684	embodied	1998	McCafferty, SG	Nonverbal expression and L2 private speech	APPLIED LINGUISTICS	This study investigated the relationship between nonverbal forms of expression, principally gestures, and L2 private speech (vocalized forms of speech for the self that function metacognitively to help the learner plan, guide, and monitor a course of activity) through the use of both a recall and picture narration task. Nonverbal elements were found to illuminate the private speech they accompanied; moreover, gestures were found in and of themselves, that is, with no verbalization, to act in a self-regulatory capacity after brief pauses, implying a possible connection to inner speech. The study also suggests possible cross-cultural and proficiency differences for the use of self-regulatory nonverbal forms. Overall, a strong connection between cognition and affective/volitional concerns is brought out: learners' strategic efforts are demonstrated to be of an embodied nature.
685	embodied	2011	Louwerse, M; Connell, L	A Taste of Words: Linguistic Context and Perceptual Simulation Predict the Modality of Words	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Previous studies have shown that object properties are processed faster when they follow properties from the same perceptual modality than properties from different modalities. These findings suggest that language activates sensorimotor processes, which, according to those studies, can only be explained by a modal account of cognition. The current paper shows how a statistical linguistic approach of word co-occurrences can also reliably predict the category of perceptual modality a word belongs to (auditory, olfactory-gustatory, visual-haptic), even though the statistical linguistic approach is less precise than the modal approach (auditory, gustatory, haptic, olfactory, visual). Moreover, the statistical linguistic approach is compared with the modal embodied approach in an experiment in which participants verify properties that share or shift modalities. Response times suggest that fast responses can best be explained by the linguistic account, whereas slower responses can best be explained by the embodied account. These results provide further evidence for the theory that conceptual processing is both linguistic and embodied, whereby less precise linguistic processes precede precise simulation processes.
686	embodied	2011	Mondada, L	Understanding as an embodied, situated and sequential achievement in interaction	JOURNAL OF PRAGMATICS	This paper aims at outlining the sequential situated and embodied dimensions of understanding in interaction This perspective on understanding originating in Ryle and Wittgenstein further developed by ethnomethodology and conversation analysis focuses on the orderly unfolding of sequences of actions in time It also focuses on understanding as a collective achievement publicly displayed and interactively oriented to within the production and the monitoring of action Its accountability is built through a plurality of displays claiming and demonstrating understanding thanks to the mobilization of linguistic and embodied resources at specific sequential positions The paper discusses evidences of understanding as they are publicly displayed by the participants in interaction It both offers a discussion of the ethnomethodological and conversation analytic literature and an analysis an empirical case focusing on the Interplay of embodied and sequential features in the production and monitoring of understanding (C) 2010 Elsevier B V All rights reserved
687	embodied	2010	Beilock, SL; Goldin-Meadow, S	Gesture Changes Thought by Grounding It in Action	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	When people talk, they gesture. We show that gesture introduces action information into speakers' mental representations, which, in turn, affect subsequent performance. In Experiment 1, participants solved the Tower of Hanoi task (TOH1), explained (with gesture) how they solved it, and solved it again (TOH2). For all participants, the smallest disk in TOH1 was the lightest and could be lifted with one hand. For some participants (no-switch group), the disks in TOH2 were identical to those in TOH1. For others (switch group), the disk weights in TOH2 were reversed (so that the smallest disk was the heaviest and could not be lifted with one hand). The more the switch group's gestures depicted moving the smallest disk one-handed, the worse they performed on TOH2. This was not true for the no-switch group, nor for the switch group in Experiment 2, who skipped the explanation step and did not gesture. Gesturing grounds people's mental representations in action. When gestures are no longer compatible with the action constraints of a task, problem solving suffers.
688	embodied	2012	Adam, H; Galinsky, AD	Enclothed cognition	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY	We introduce the term "enclothed cognition" to describe the systematic influence that clothes have on the wearer's psychological processes. We offer a potentially unifying framework to integrate past findings and capture the diverse impact that clothes can have on the wearer by proposing that enclothed cognition involves the co-occurrence of two independent factors- the symbolic meaning of the clothes and the physical experience of wearing them. As a first test of our enclothed cognition perspective, the current research explored the effects of wearing a lab coat. A pretest found that a lab coat is generally associated with attentiveness and carefulness. We therefore predicted that wearing a lab coat would increase performance on attention-related tasks. In Experiment 1, physically wearing a lab coat increased selective attention compared to not wearing a lab coat. In Experiments 2 and 3. wearing a lab coat described as a doctor's coat increased sustained attention compared to wearing a lab coat described as a painter's coat, and compared to simply seeing or even identifying with a lab coat described as a doctor's coat. Thus, the current research suggests a basic principle of enclothed cognition-it depends on both the symbolic meaning and the physical experience of wearing the clothes. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
689	embodied	2011	Pezzulo, G	Grounding Procedural and Declarative Knowledge in Sensorimotor Anticipation	MIND & LANGUAGE	We propose a view of embodied representations that is alternative to both symbolic/linguistic approaches and purely sensorimotor views of cognition, and can account for procedural and declarative knowledge manipulation. In accordance with recent evidence in cognitive neuroscience and psychology, we argue that anticipatory and simulative mechanisms, which arose during evolution for action control and not for cognition, determined the first form of representational content and were exapted for increasingly sophisticated cognitive uses. In particular, procedural and declarative forms of knowledge can be explained, respectively, in terms of on-line sensorimotor anticipation and off-line simulations of potential actions, which can give access to tacit knowledge and make it explicit. That is, mechanisms that evolved for the on-line prediction of the consequences of one's own actions (i.e. forward models) determine a (procedural) form of representation, and became exapted for off-line use. They can therefore be used to produce (declarative) knowledge of the world, by running a simulation of the action that would produce the relevant information. We conclude by discussing how embodied representations afford a form of internal manipulation that can be described as internalized situated action.
690	embodied	2010	Tomasino, B; Weiss, PH; Fink, GR	TO MOVE OR NOT TO MOVE: IMPERATIVES MODULATE ACTION-RELATED VERB PROCESSING IN THE MOTOR SYSTEM	NEUROSCIENCE	It has been suggested that the processing of action-related words involves activation of the motor circuitry. Using fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging), the current study further explored the interaction between action and language by investigating whether the linguistic context, in which an action word occurs, modulates motor circuitry activity related to the processing of action words. To this end, we examined whether the presentation of hand action-related verbs as positive or negative imperatives, for example, "Do grasp" or "Don't write," modulates neural activity in the hand area of primary motor cortex (M1) or premotor cortex (Pm). Subjects (n = 19) were asked to read silently the imperative phrases, in which both meaningful action verbs and meaningless pseudo-verbs were presented, and to decide whether they made sense (lexical decision task). At the behavioral level, response times in the lexical decision task were significantly longer for negative, compared to positive, imperatives. At the neural level, activity was differentially decreased by action verbs presented as negative imperatives for the premotor and the primary motor cortex of both hemispheres. The data suggest that context (here: positive vs. negative imperatives), in which an action verb is encountered, modulates the neural activity within key areas of the motor system. The finding implies that motor simulation (or motor planning) rather than semantic processing per se may underlie previously observed motor system activation related to action verb processing. Furthermore, the current data suggest that negative imperatives may inhibit motor simulation or motor planning processes. (C) 2010 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
691	embodied	2003	Verschure, PFMJ; Althaus, P	A real-world rational agent: unifying old and new AI	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Explanations of cognitive processes provided by traditional artificial intelligence were based on the notion of the knowledge level. This perspective has been challenged by new Al that proposes an approach based on embodied systems that interact with the real-world. We demonstrate that these two views can be unified. Our argument is based on. the assumption that knowledge level explanations can be defined in the context of Bayesian theory while the goals of new Al are captured by using a well established robot based model of learning and problem solving, called Distributed Adaptive Control (DAC). In our analysis we consider random foraging and we prove that minor modifications of the DAC architecture renders a model that is equivalent to a Bayesian analysis of this task. Subsequently, we compare this enhanced, "rational," model to its "non-rational" predecessor and a further control condition using both simulated and real robots, in a variety of environments. Our results show that the changes made to the DAC architecture, in order to unify the perspectives of old and new AI, also lead to a significant improvement in random foraging. (C) 2003 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
692	embodied	2012	Moseley, R; Carota, F; Hauk, O; Mohr, B; Pulvermuller, F	A Role for the Motor System in Binding Abstract Emotional Meaning	CEREBRAL CORTEX	Sensorimotor areas activate to action- and object-related words, but their role in abstract meaning processing is still debated. Abstract emotion words denoting body internal states are a critical test case because they lack referential links to objects. If actions expressing emotion are crucial for learning correspondences between word forms and emotions, emotion word-evoked activity should emerge in motor brain systems controlling the face and arms, which typically express emotions. To test this hypothesis, we recruited 18 native speakers and used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain activation evoked by abstract emotion words to that by face- and arm-related action words. In addition to limbic regions, emotion words indeed sparked precentral cortex, including body-part-specific areas activated somatotopically by face words or arm words. Control items, including hash mark strings and animal words, failed to activate precentral areas. We conclude that, similar to their role in action word processing, activation of frontocentral motor systems in the dorsal stream reflects the semantic binding of sign and meaning of abstract words denoting emotions and possibly other body internal states.
693	embodied	2011	Dove, G	On the need for embodied and dis-embodied cognition	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	This essay proposes and defends a pluralistic theory of conceptual embodiment. Our concepts are represented in at least two ways: (i) through sensorimotor simulations of our interactions with objects and events and (ii) through sensorimotor simulations of natural language processing. Linguistic representations are "dis-embodied" in the sense that they are dynamic and multimodal but, in contrast to other forms of embodied cognition, do not inherit semantic content from this embodiment. The capacity to store information in the associations and inferential relationships among linguistic representations extends our cognitive reach and provides an explanation of our ability to abstract and generalize. This theory is supported by a number of empirical considerations, including the large body of evidence from cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology supporting a multiple semantic code explanation of imageability effects.
694	embodied	2009	Halberstadt, J; Winkielman, P; Niedenthal, PM; Dalle, N	Emotional Conception: How Embodied Emotion Concepts Guide Perception and Facial Action	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	This study assessed embodied simulation via electromyography (EMG) as participants first encoded emotionally ambiguous faces with emotion concepts (i.e., "angry," "happy") and later passively viewed the faces without the concepts. Memory for the faces was also measured. At initial encoding, participants displayed more smiling-related EMG activity in response to faces paired with "happy" than in response to faces paired with "angry." Later, in the absence of concepts, participants remembered happiness-encoded faces as happier than anger-encoded faces. Further, during passive reexposure to the ambiguous faces, participants' EMG indicated spontaneous emotion-specific mimicry, which in turn predicted memory bias. No specific EMG activity was observed when participants encoded or viewed faces with non-emotion-related valenced concepts, or when participants encoded or viewed Chinese ideographs. From an embodiment perspective, emotion simulation is a measure of what is currently perceived. Thus, these findings provide evidence of genuine concept-driven changes in emotion perception. More generally, the findings highlight embodiment's role in the representation and processing of emotional information.
695	embodied	2009	Liberman, N; Forster, J	The Effect of Psychological Distance on Perceptual Level of Construal	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three studies examined the effect of primed psychological distance on level of perceptual construal, using Navon's paradigm of composite letters (global letters that are made of local letters). Relative to a control group, thinking of the more distant future (Study 1), about more distant spatial locations (Study 2), and about more distant social relations (Study 3) facilitated perception of global letters relative to local letters. Proximal times, spatial locations, and social relations had the opposite effect. The results are discussed within the framework of Construal Level Theory of psychological distance (Liberman & Trope, 2008; Trope & Liberman, 2003).
696	embodied	2005	Potter, J	Making psychology relevant	DISCOURSE & SOCIETY	This article describes some key features of a discursive psychological approach. In particular, discursive psychology is analytically focused on the way psychological phenomena are practical, accountable, situated, embodied and displayed. It describes its particular version of constructionism and its distinctive approach to cognition as points of contrast with a range of other perspectives, including critical discourse analysis, sociolinguistics, ethnomethodology and conversation analysis. Finally, it describes three areas where discursive psychology is involved with social critique: work on categories and prejudice, issues to do with cognitivism and its problems, and work developing a discursive psychology of institutions.
697	embodied	1996	Reynolds, RE; Sinatra, GM; Jetton, TL	Views of knowledge acquisition and representation: A continuum from experience centered to mind centered	EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST	The purpose of this paper is to provide a framework for discussing five approaches to understanding knowledge acquisition and representation. These approaches are behaviorism, schema theory, social perspective theories, connectionism, and situated cognition. We describe these approaches as lying on a continuum running from an experience-centered view of knowledge acquisition to a mind-centered view, with a more interactive view at the center. All five approaches are explicated in light of this continuum. Specifically, assumptions about knowledge acquisition and representation, the strengths and weaknesses of the approach, and the potential or actual impact on schooling are highlighted for each theory. We suggest that although each of these theories has merit in explaining certain aspects of knowledge acquisition, no approach adequately addresses the issues of consciousness, self-awareness, and self-reflection. Also, we argue that viewing cognitive functioning through the lenses of machine metaphors is never likely to lead to an understanding of these issues. Thus, what is required is a conception that embodies the sophistication of the computer metaphor with the added ability to evolve, feel, and adapt--in short, a biological metaphor.
698	embodied	2012	Tschentscher, N; Hauk, O; Fischer, MH; Pulvermuller, F	You can count on the motor cortex: Finger counting habits modulate motor cortex activation evoked by numbers	NEUROIMAGE	The embodied cognition framework suggests that neural systems for perception and action are engaged during higher cognitive processes. In an event-related fMRI study, we tested this claim for the abstract domain of numerical symbol processing: is the human cortical motor system part of the representation of numbers, and is organization of numerical knowledge influenced by individual finger counting habits? Developmental studies suggest a link between numerals and finger counting habits due to the acquisition of numerical skills through finger counting in childhood. In the present study, digits 1 to 9 and the corresponding number words were presented visually to adults with different finger counting habits, i.e. left- and right-starters who reported that they usually start counting small numbers with their left and right hand, respectively. Despite the absence of overt hand movements, the hemisphere contralateral to the hand used for counting small numbers was activated when small numbers were presented. The correspondence between finger counting habits and hemispheric motor activation is consistent with an intrinsic functional link between finger counting and number processing. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
699	embodied	2012	Pavlenko, A	Affective processing in bilingual speakers: Disembodied cognition?	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	A recent study by Keysar, Hayakawa, and An (2012) suggests that "thinking in a foreign language'' may reduce decision biases because a foreign language provides a greater emotional distance than a native tongue. The possibility of such "disembodied'' cognition is of great interest for theories of affect and cognition and for many other areas of psychological theory and practice, from clinical and forensic psychology to marketing, but first this claim needs to be properly evaluated. The purpose of this review is to examine the findings of clinical, introspective, cognitive, psychophysiological, and neuroimaging studies of affective processing in bilingual speakers in order to identify converging patterns of results, to evaluate the claim about "disembodied cognition,'' and to outline directions for future inquiry. The findings to date reveal two interrelated processing effects. First-language (L1) advantage refers to increased automaticity of affective processing in the L1 and heightened electrodermal reactivity to L1 emotion-laden words. Second-language (L2) advantage refers to decreased automaticity of affective processing in the L2, which reduces interference effects and lowers electrodermal reactivity to negative emotional stimuli. The differences in L1 and L2 affective processing suggest that in some bilingual speakers, in particular late bilinguals and foreign language users, respective languages may be differentially embodied, with the later learned language processed semantically but not affectively. This difference accounts for the reduction of framing biases in L2 processing in the study by Keysar et al. (2012). The follow-up discussion identifies the limits of the findings to date in terms of participant populations, levels of processing, and types of stimuli, puts forth alternative explanations of the documented effects, and articulates predictions to be tested in future research.
700	embodied	2010	Ouellet, M; Santiago, J; Funes, MJ; Lupianez, J	Thinking About the Future Moves Attention to the Right	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	Previous studies have shown that past and future temporal concepts are spatially represented (past being located to the left and future to the fight in a mental time line). This study aims at further investigating the nature of this space-time conceptual metaphor, by testing whether the temporal reference of words orient spatial attention or rather prime a congruent left/right response. A modified version of the spatial cuing paradigm was used in which a word's temporal reference must be kept in working memory whilst participants carry out a spatial localization (Experiment 1) or a direction discrimination, spatial Stroop task (Experiment 2). The results showed that the mere activation of the past or future concepts both oriented attention and primed motor responses to left or right space, respectively, and these effects were independent. Moreover, in spite of the fact that such time-reference cues were nonpredictive, the use of a short and a long stimulus onset asynchrony in Experiment 3 showed that these cues modulated spatial attention as typical central cues like arrows do, suggesting a common mechanism for these two types of cuing.
701	enactive	2012	Roesch, EB; Nasuto, SJ; Bishop, JM	Emotion and anticipation in an enactive framework for cognition (response to Andy Clark)	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	
702	enactive	2011	Vakarelov, O	The cognitive agent: Overcoming informational limits	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	This article provides an answer to the question: What is the function of cognition? By answering this question it becomes possible to investigate what are the simplest cognitive systems. It addresses the question by treating cognition as a solution to a design problem. It defines a nested sequence of design problems: (1) How can a system persist? (2) How can a system affect its environment to improve its persistence? (3) How can a system utilize better information from the environment to select better actions? And, (4) How can a system reduce its inherent informational limitations to achieve more successful behavior? This provides a corresponding nested sequence of system classes: (1) autonomous systems, (2) (re) active autonomous systems, (3) informationally controlled autonomous systems (autonomous agents), and (4) cognitive systems. This article provides the following characterization of cognition: The cognitive system is the set of mechanisms of an autonomous agent that (1) allow increase of the correlation and integration between the environment and the information system of the agent, so that (2) the agent can improve the selection of actions and thereby produce more successful behavior. Finally, it shows that common cognitive capacities satisfy the characterization: learning, memory, representation, decision making, reasoning, attention, and communication.
703	enactive	2009	Cabral, MDC; Kastrup, V	Receptive Reading: An Experience of Becoming Aware	PSICOLOGIA-REFLEXAO E CRITICA	This work discusses the experience of reading literature in silence and solitude, focusing its effects oil the reader. The starting point is the enlargement of cognition as presented in Varela's enactive approach and the concept of inventive cognition as formulated by Kastrup. Then. it proposes the reading as an experience of becoming aware. The work is also based on Chartier's ideas about reading practices and uses the theory of Larrosa regarding. the transformative aspect of reading as well. The idea that reading literature provides a meeting with otherness is developed. It may constitute an opening for the unknown and an opportunity of inventing oneself.
704	enactive	2008	Martinez, IC; Anta, JF	Enactive cognition and music pedagogy: Embodied reading and declarative analysis of musical structure in an instrumental lesson	ESTUDIOS DE PSICOLOGIA	There exists agreement in the field of cognitive science on the fact that the study of mind encompasses the whole human body, including the interpersonal and social world, Accordingly, it is assumed that the a development of an individual's consciousness is empathic in nature, involving the cognition of oneself with respect to others and of others with respect to oneself In the present article, the embodied activity of the music teacher is analysed in the context of an instrumental lesson. It is assumed that embodied imagination, understood as a transmodal process of mapping between different experiential domains, allows the teacher to perform an embodied reading of the student's music performance, which becomes a pedagogic tool in the verbal interaction to teach instrumental performance.
705	enactive	2008	Martinez, IC	Enactive cognition and embodied mind: The imaginative and metaphorical component of music listening	ESTUDIOS DE PSICOLOGIA	Enactive cognition is a concept coined in the field of cognitive science to posit that mental processes are embodied in the sensory-motor activity of the organism interacting with the environment. Recently, several hypotheses have been put forth concerning the imaginative nature of music cognition based on the assumption that structural Metaphors might, to a certain extent, model musical experience, In this paper, the metaphorical component of music cognition is analysed and some results of how listeners use it to experience the underlying structure of tonal music are reported. The outcomes provide evidence that listeners experience the interruption of structural tension in metaphorical terms, According to the theory of enactive cognition, the systematic correlations that take place between different experiential domains are the bases of the idealised cognitive models that listeners activate in order to make sense of music.
706	enactive	2016	Kyselo, M	The enactive approach and disorders of the self - the case of schizophrenia	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The paper discusses two recent approaches to schizophrenia, a phenomenological and a neuroscientific approach, illustrating how new directions in philosophy and cognitive science can elaborate accounts of psychopathologies of the self. It is argued that the notion of the minimal and bodily self underlying these approaches is still limited since it downplays the relevance of social interactions and relations for the formation of a coherent sense of self. These approaches also illustrate that we still lack an account of how 1st and 3rd person observations can fruitfully go together in an embodied account of disorders of the self. Two concepts from enactive cognitive science are introduced, the notions of autonomy and sense-making. Based on these, a new proposal for an enactive approach to psychopathologies of the self is outlined that integrates 1st and 3rd person perspectives, while strongly emphasising the role of social interactions in the formation of self. It is shown how the enactive framework might serve as a basis for an alternative understanding of disorders of the self such as schizophrenia, as a particular form of socially constituted self-organisation.
707	enactive	2016	Loaiza, JM	Musicking, embodiment and participatory enaction of music: outline and key points	CONNECTION SCIENCE	This paper proposes a way of understanding the confluence of the enactive approach to cognition and musicology in a wider sense. The implication is that existing socio-cultural approaches to meaning in music - whereby music is seen as a total social phenomenon, and the naturalistic view of music cognition may be articulated via the life-mind continuum proposed by enactivism. On the one hand, discussions on embodied music cognition are presented with the opportunity to overcome their de facto individualism in a principled, naturalistic way. On the other hand, for the socio-cultural-historical approaches the opportunity seems to be to move beyond the biology-culture divide without submitting to reductionism. A wider explanatory unit is presented. The explanatory utility of embodiment is examined in relation to the wider frame of social-life in dialectical fashion. A definition of musicking is sketched considering it as an instance of processes of social-life. This paper signals a direction to take, yet methodologies, results, and homologies with other disciplines are left open to further discussion.
708	enactive	2016	Rodriguez, S	Recurrences and Human Agential Meaning Grounding: Laying a Path in Walking	BIOSEMIOTICS	This article addresses the semiotic problem of how meaning is agentially grounded: how actual meaning is possible and is justifiably supported by agents' capabilities and purposes. This article is particularly focused on human agential grounding; however, to a great degree, insights presented here can be extended to other living beings. Specifically, agential meaning is examined here inside the framework of agentive semiotics and embodied, situated and enactive cognition theories, in line with the mind-life continuity general thesis (which intends to naturalize mind and experience). To offer clarity and methodological precision about agential grounding, three explanation categories (called recurrences) are proposed: phylogenetic recurrence, the evolutionary basis for corporal/embodied grounding; ontogenetic recurrence, the developmental basis for individual meaning grounding; and collective recurrence, the basis for meaning recognized, attributed and assigned inside social contexts. These recurrences are conceived as three types of general processes that constantly enclose possibilities for purpose and meaning emergence in humans. As a result of these types of recurrences, two categories of human agendas or purposes are also proposed: individual and collective. Finally, remarks about how these categories can be useful for semiotic analysis and further research are suggested.
709	enactive	2016	Deschamps, L; Lenay, C; Rovira, K; Le Bihan, G; Aubert, D	Joint Perception of a Shared Object: A Minimalist Perceptual Crossing Experiment	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	The minimalist perceptual crossing paradigm has emphasized the essential role of interpersonal dynamics on social understanding. Within the particular case of minimalist interaction, it has been argued that interpersonal processes can constitute social cognition, at least partially, which calls for a paradigm shift in social cognition studies. In this paper, we review several perceptual crossing experiments and their theoretical implications, and propose an original experiment to go beyond strictly dyadic interactions. Whereas past experiments have used objects as distracters of dyadic interaction, our experiment aims at integrating objects themselves as the goal of interpersonal coordination. We asked 24 subjects to participate in a minimalist perceptual crossing experiment where they had to decide, based on their on-line interaction in a one-dimensional digital space, which of the objects they perceived was also perceptible by their partner. The main results suggest that the mutual awareness of a shared object (SO) arises from the quality of sensorimotor coordination between the partners. Indeed, the presence of a SO acts as a simultaneous affordance that attracts and structures individual perceptive activities, giving both partners the opportunity to co-construct a shared world where their respective actions make sense. We discuss our results by way of an enactive account of social cognition, taking the joint perception of a SO as a first step to account for joint attention.
710	enactive	2016	Foglia, L; O'Regan, JK	A New Imagery Debate: Enactive and Sensorimotor Accounts	REVIEW OF PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY	Traditionally, the "Imagery Debate" has opposed two main camps: depictivism and descriptivism. This debate has essentially focused on the nature of the internal representations thought to be involved in imagery, without addressing at all the question of action. More recently, a third, "embodied" view is moving the debate into a new phase. The embodied approach focuses on the interdependence of perception, cognition and action, and in its more radical line this approach promotes the idea that perception is not a process involving internal world-models (representations). The anti-representationalist version of the embodied paradigm covers, among others that we shall not discuss here, two quite different positions, namely the enactive approach and sensorimotor theory. Up to now these two anti-representationalist accounts have generally been confounded. In this paper we will argue that despite some important commonalities, enactive and sensorimotor accounts come with distinctive theoretical traits with regard to their approach to imagery. These become manifest when critically examining the role they assign to sensorimotor engagements with the world. We shall argue that enactive and sensorimotor approaches are different in their understanding of the role of embodied action, and these different notions of embodiment lead to different explanatory accounts of perception and imagery. We propose that, due to existing ambiguities in enactivism, the sensorimotor theory is a better framework for a skill-based approach to imagery.
711	enactive	2016	Harvey, MI; Gahrn-Andersen, R; Steffensen, SV	Interactivity and Enaction in Human Cognition	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context Distributed language and interactivity are central members of a set of concepts that are rapidly developing into rigorous, exciting additions to 4E cognitive science. Because they share certain assumptions and methodological commitments with enactivism, the two have sometimes been confused; additionally, while enactivism is a well-developed paradigm, interactivity has relied more on methodological development and on a set of focal examples. > Problem The goal of this article is to clarify the core conceptual commitments of both interactivity-based and enactive approaches to cognitive science by contrasting the two and highlighting their differences in assumptions, focus, and explanatory strategies. > Method We begin with the shared commitments of interactivity and enactivism-e.g., antirepresentationalism, naturalism, interdisciplinarity, the importance of biology, etc. We then give an overview of several important varieties of enactivism, including sensorimotor and anti-representationalist enactivism, and then walk through the history of the "core" varieties, taking care to contrast Maturana's approach with that of Varela and the current researchers following in Varela's footsteps. We then describe the differences between this latter group and interactivity-based approaches to cognitive science. > Results We argue that enactivism's core concepts are explanatorily inadequate in two ways. First, they mis-portray the organization of many living systems, which are not operationally closed. Second, they fail to realize that most epistemic activity (i.e., "sense-making") depends on engagement with non-local resources. Both problems can be dealt with by adopting an interactivity-based perspective, in which agency and cognition are fundamentally distributed and involve integration of non-local resources into the local coupling of organism and environment. > Implications The article's primary goal is theoretical clarification and exposition; its primary implication is that enactive concepts need to be modified or extended in some way in order to explain fully many aspects of cognition and directed biological activity. Or, read another way, the article's primary implication is that interactivity already provides a rich set of concepts for doing just that, which, while closely allied with enactivism in several ways, are not enactivist concepts. > Constructivist content The article consists entirely of a comparison between two constructivist fields of theory.
712	enactive	2015	Matyja, JR; Dolega, K	Commentary: The embodied brain: towards a radical embodied cognitive neuroscience	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	0
713	enactive	2015	Beer, RD	Characterizing Autopoiesis in the Game of Life	ARTIFICIAL LIFE	Maturana and Varela's concept of autopoiesis defines the essential organization of living systems and serves as a foundation for their biology of cognition and the enactive approach to cognitive science. As an initial step toward a more formal analysis of autopoiesis, this article investigates its application to the compact, recurrent spatiotemporal patterns that arise in Conway's Game-of-Life cellular automaton. In particular, we demonstrate how such entities can be formulated as self-constructing networks of interdependent processes that maintain their own boundaries. We then characterize the specific organizations of several such entities, suggest a way to simplify the descriptions of these organizations, and briefly consider the transformation of such organizations over time.
714	enactive	2015	Urban, P	ENACTIVISM AND CARE ETHICS: MERGING PERSPECTIVES	FILOZOFIA	Enactivism can be seen as a non-reductive, naturalistic theory of mind and agency that emerged from a set of biological and phenomenological ideas, inspired also by the Buddhist mindfulness tradition. The ethics of care, on the other hand, has established itself as a normative moral theory inspired by feminist moral philosophy and psychology as well as by some more traditional currents in ethics, such as moral sentimentalism, which it developed further in a novel and innovative manner. This paper aims to show that, despite the prima facie differences and separate developmental trajectories, both approaches have put forward, at about the same period of time, a powerful criticism of traditional individualistic and rationalistic accounts of autonomy, cognition, and agency, and have suggested a revision of these notions in terms of a relational ontology with an emphasis on the embodied and situated nature of cognition and agency. The first part of the paper provides a picture of an enactive research program. Its implications for an enactive ethics are discussed as well. In the second part some striking affinities between the enactive approach and the ethics of care are explored.
715	enactive	2015	Froese, T	Enactive neuroscience, the direct perception hypothesis, and the socially extended mind	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Pessoa's The Cognitive-Emotional Brain (2013) is an integrative approach to neuroscience that complements other developments in cognitive science, especially enactivism. Both accept complexity as essential to mind; both tightly integrate perception, cognition, and emotion, which enactivism unifies in its foundational concept of sense-making; and both emphasize that the spatial extension of mental processes is not reducible to specific brain regions and neuroanatomical connectivity. An enactive neuroscience is emerging.
716	enactive	2015	Pugliese, R; Forger, K; Takala, T	Game Experience When Controlling a Weak Avatar in Full-Body Enaction	INTELLIGENT VIRTUAL AGENTS, IVA 2015	In this paper we describe a motion-controlled game based on a paradigm of a player enacting the character, rather than a character mimicking the player's action. Our hypothesis is that a controlling scheme based on the adaptation of a player to the way the avatar is able to perform actions, can result in a stronger presence and psychological bond to the character. The approach is based on previous studies showing that features, attitudes and behaviors of the digital representation of players in a virtual reality setting, alter the players self-perception in the virtual environment (Proteus effect). The interaction mechanism is inspired by enactive approach to cognition and embodied action. In a mini-game we explore effects of controlling a weak character on self-presence and identification with the avatar. We show that increasing degrees of effort in the controlled bodies resulted in different impressions of the physical state of the character. Additionally, we provide our interpretation of relation between game experience and the kinetic parameters and adaptation indicators extracted from the motion of the player and avatar. Finally, we address scenarios where this enaction-based approach to motion controlled avatar can find application.
717	enactive	2014	Majumdar, R; Kothiyal, A; Pande, P; Agarwal, H; Ranka, A; Murthy, S; Chandrasekharan, S	The enactive equation: exploring how multiple external representations are integrated, using a fully controllable interface and eye-tracking	2014 IEEE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON TECHNOLOGY FOR EDUCATION (T4E)	Representational competence (RC), defined as "the ability to simultaneously process and integrate multiple external representations (MERs) in a domain", is a marker of expertise in science and engineering. However, the cognitive mechanisms underlying this ability and how this ability develops in learners, is poorly understood. In this paper, we report a fully controllable interface, designed to help school students develop RC. Further, as the design emerged from the application of distributed and embodied cognition theory to the RC problem, the design also seeks to shed light on the cognitive mechanisms underlying the integration of MERs. Here we report a preliminary eye and mouse tracking study, which sought to develop a detailed understanding of how students interacted with our interface, under self and text-guided exploration conditions. We also examined how the interaction process related to students' ability to integrate the representations in the interface. Results highlighted several desirable student behaviors, and potential points of modification of the interface to improve integration of MERs.
718	enactive	2014	Short, WM; Shearin, WH; Welchman, A	Deleuze and the Enaction of Non-Sense	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	This chapter examines the ways in which French philosopher Gilles Deleuze offers conceptual resources for an enactive account of language, in particular his extensive consideration of language in The Logic of Sense. Specifically, Deleuze's distinction between the nonsense of Lewis Carroll's portmanteau creations and that of Antonin Artaud's "translation" of Carroll's Jabberwocky highlights the need for an enactive, rather than merely embodied, approach to sense-making, particularly with regard to the general category of what Jakobson and Halle (1956) call "sound symbolism".
719	enactive	2012	Lavelle, JS	Two Challenges to Hutto's Enactive Account of Pre-linguistic Social Cognition	PHILOSOPHIA	Daniel Hutto's Enactive account of social cognition maintains that pre- and non-linguistic interactions do not require that the participants represent the psychological states of the other. This goes against traditional 'cognitivist' accounts of these social phenomena. This essay examines Hutto's Enactive account, and proposes two challenges. The account maintains that organisms respond to the behaviours of others, and in doing so respond to the 'intentional attitude' which the other has. The first challenge argues that there is no adequate account of how the organisms respond to the correct aspect of the behaviour in each situation. The second challenge argues that the Enactive account cannot account for the flexibility of pre- and non-linguistic responses to others. The essay concludes that these challenges provide more than sufficient reason to doubt the viability of Hutto's account as an alternative to cogntivist approaches to social cognition.
720	enactive	2011	Miyahara, K	Neo-pragmatic intentionality and enactive perception: a compromise between extended and enactive minds	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The general idea of enactive perception is that actual and potential embodied activities determine perceptual experience. Some extended mind theorists, such as Andy Clark, refute this claim despite their general emphasis on the importance of the body. I propose a compromise to this opposition. The extended mind thesis is allegedly a consequence of our commonsense understanding of the mind. Furthermore, extended mind theorists assume the existence of non-human minds. I explore the precise nature of the commonsense understanding of the mind, which accepts both extended minds and non-human minds. In the area of philosophy of mind, there are two theories of intentionality based on such commonsense understandings: neo-behaviorism defended, e.g., by Daniel Dennett, and neo-pragmatism advocated, e.g., by Robert Brandom. Neither account is in full agreement with how people ordinarily use their commonsense understanding. Neo-pragmatism, however, can overcome its problem-its inability to explain why people routinely find intentionality in non-humans-by incorporating the phenomenological suggestion that interactional bodily skills determine how we perceive others' intentionality. I call this integrative position embodied neo-pragmatism. I conclude that the extended view of the mind makes sense, without denying the existence of non-human minds, only by assuming embodied neo-pragmatism and hence the general idea of enactive perception.
721	enactive	2011	Vaz, NM; Ramos, GC; de Castro, AB	The Enactive Paradigm 33 Years Later Response to Alfred Tauber	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Upshot According to the biology of cognition and language (Maturana's approach), the immune system is not a cognitive system and the defining of a cognitive paradigm is not what we understand as a Maturanian approach to immunology. The true cognitive actions in immunology are performed by immunologists acting as observers, not by body organs or systems. Stimuli and responses are not adequate concepts in the description of systems. As a closed network of cellular/molecular interactions, the immune system yields patterns of activity, as is transparent in robust conserved profiles of reactivity of natural immunoglobulins, as investigated by Nobrega et al. and Cohen et al., which offer the opportunity to unravel its natural, spontaneous activity. Dietary materials, products of the commensal microbiome, are the most abundant and common elements continuously incorporated into the network activity and, thus, also represent an important avenue of investigation.
722	enactive	2010	Di Donato, P	Geospatial Semantics: A Critical Review	COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCE AND ITS APPLICATIONS - ICCSA 2010, PT 1, PROCEEDINGS	Current approaches to semantics in the geospatial domain are mainly based on ontologies, but ontologies, since continue to build entirely on the symbolic methodology, suffers from the classical problems, e.g. the symbol grounding problem, affecting representational theories. We claim for an enactive approach to semantics, where meaning is considered to be an emergent feature arising context-dependently in action. Since representational theories are unable to deal with context and emergence, a new formalism is required toward a contextual theory of concepts. SCOP is considered a promising formalism in this sense and is briefly described.
723	enactive	2016	Petters, D	An encounter between 4e cognition and attachment theory	CONNECTION SCIENCE	This paper explores a constructive revision of the conceptual underpinnings of Attachment Theory through an encounter with the diverse elements of 4e cognition. Attachment relationships involve the development of preference for one or a few carers and expectations about their availability and responsiveness as a haven of safety and a base from which to explore. In attachment theory, mental representations have been assigned a central organising role in explaining attachment phenomena. The 4e cognition approaches in cognitive science raise a number of questions about the development and interplay of attachment and cognition. These include: (1) the nature of what Bowlby called internal working models of attachment'; (2) the extent to which the infant-carer dyad functions as an extension of the infant's mind; and (3) whether Bowlby's attachment control system concept can be usefully re-framed in enactive terms where traditional cognitivist representations are: (3i) substituted for sensorimotor skill-focused mediating representations; (3ii) viewed as arising from autopoietic living organisms; and/or (3iii) mostly composed from the non-contentful mechanisms of basic minds? A theme that cross-cuts these research questions is how representations for capturing meaning, and structures for adaptive control, are both required to explain the full range of behaviour of interest to Attachment Theory researchers.
724	enactive	2016	Martinez-Pernia, D; Huepe, D; Huepe-Artigas, D; Correia, R; Garcia, S; Beitia, M	Enactive Approach and Dual-Tasks for the Treatment of Severe Behavioral and Cognitive Impairment in a Person with Acquired Brain Injury: A Case Study	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	One of the most important sequela in persons who suffer from acquired brain injury is a behavioral disorder. To date, the primary approaches for the rehabilitation of this sequela are Applied Behavior Analysis, Cognitive-Behavior Therapy, and Comprehensive-Holistic Rehabilitation Programs. Despite this theoretical plurality, none of these approaches focuses on rehabilitating behavioral disorders considering the relation between affordance and environmental adaptation. To introduce this therapeutic view to neurorehabilitation, we apply the theoretical tenets of the enactive paradigm to the rehabilitation of a woman with severe behavioral and cognitive impairment. Over seventeen sessions, her behavioral and cognitive performance was assessed in relation to two seated affordances (seated on a chair and seated on a ball 65 cm in diameter) and the environmental adaptation while she was working on various cognitive tasks. These two seated affordances allowed to incorporate the theoretical assumptions of the enactive approach and to know how the behavior and the cognition were modified based on these two postural settings and the environmental adaptation. The findings indicate that the subject exhibited better behavioral (physical and verbal) and cognitive (matching success and complex task) performances when the woman worked on the therapeutic ball than when the woman was on the chair. The enactive paradigm applied in neurorehabilitation introduces a level of treatment that precedes behavior and cognition. This theoretical consideration allowed the discovery of a better relation between a seated affordance and the environmental adaptation for the improvement behavioral and cognitive performance in our case study.
725	enactive	2016	Lo Presti, P	Whose mind? Two interpretations of what it is to directly perceive other minds	THEORY & PSYCHOLOGY	According to direct perception theory (DPT) people understand each other's minds by way of perceiving each other's behavioral engagements in the world. I argue that DPT admits of two interpretations. One interpretation is found in Searle's social ontology. The other interpretation departs from an enactivist account of social cognition. Both can make sense of what it is to perceive other minds, but in two different ways. The first claims that people can directly perceive states of mind shared in a community. In contrast, the second interpretation allows for direct perception of particular individuals' states of mind in the context of participation in social practices. The two interpretations are argued to be compatible. People can perceive communal states of mind in another's responsiveness to action possibilities in social environments, not only the particular other's states of mind.
726	enactive	2016	Di Paolo, E	Participatory Object Perception	JOURNAL OF CONSCIOUSNESS STUDIES	Social factors have so far been neglected in embodied theories of perception despite the wealth of phenomenological insights and empirical evidence indicating their importance. I examine evidence from developmental psychology and neuroscience and attempt an initial classification according to whether social factors play a contextual, enabling, or constitutive role in the ability to perceive objects in a detached manner, i.e. beyond their immediate instrumental use. While evidence of cross-cultural variations in perceptual styles and the influence of social cues on visual attention could not be said to play more than a contextual role, other factors such as the intricate developmental links between dyadic and triadic interactions in infancy, as well as episodes of peer-learning in children, play enabling roles. A common element in these factors is the presence and resolution of interpersonal conflict. Detached object perception could not develop without these social factors. I argue, in addition, that social skills such as managing partial social acts which are addressed to and completed by others, linguistic mediation, make-believe play, and the ability to control perspectival switches are constitutive - i.e. are of the essence - of the ability to see objects as present with a detached attitude. I discuss the prospects of incorporating such social elements into dynamical interpretations of the sensorimotor approach through the enactive notion of participatory sense-making.
727	enactive	2016	Moore, RK	Introducing a Pictographic Language for Envisioning a Rich Variety of Enactive Systems with Different Degrees of Complexity	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ADVANCED ROBOTIC SYSTEMS	Notwithstanding the considerable amount of progress that has been made in recent years, the parallel fields of cognitive science and cognitive systems lack a unifying methodology for describing, understanding, simulating and implementing advanced cognitive behaviours. Growing interest in 'enactivism' - as pioneered by the Chilean biologists Humberto Maturana and Francisco Varela - may lead to new perspectives in these areas, but a common framework for expressing many of the key concepts is still missing. This paper attempts to lay a tentative foundation in that direction by extending Maturana and Varela's pictographic depictions of autopoietic unities to create a rich visual language for envisioning a wide range of enactive systems - natural or artificial - with different degrees of complexity. It is shown how such a diagrammatic taxonomy can help in the comprehension of important relationships between a variety of complex concepts from a pan- theoretic perspective. In conclusion, it is claimed that visual language is not only valuable for teaching and learning, but also offers important insights into the design and implementation of future advanced robotic systems.
728	enactive	2016	Lazzeri, F	On some common objections to a behavioral approach to psychological categories	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	This paper addresses several objections that have been leveled against a behavioral approach to psychological categories. It reconstructs and critically assesses (a) the so-called causal objection; (b) alleged counterexamples whereby one can exhibit the typical behaviors associated with a psychological phenomenon without exhibiting the latter, including Lewis' "perfect actor" case and Kirk's "zombie"; (c) alleged counterexamples whereby organisms can exemplify psychological phenomena without exhibiting any behavior associated with them, including Armstrong's imagined brain in a vat, Putnam's "super-super-spartans" scenario, and related cases; and (d) the holistic objection. Mistaken assumptions in each of these objections are pinpointed. The paper starts with a brief characterization of behaviorism about psychological categories and a summary of the particular version thereof supported here, which draws upon Ryle and Skinner, among others.
729	enactive	2016	Solomonova, E; Wei, SX	Exploring the Depth of Dream Experience The Enactive Framework and Methods for Neurophenomenological Research	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Context Phenomenology and the enactive approach pose a unique challenge to dream research: during sleep one seems to be relatively disconnected from both world and body. Movement and perception, prerequisites for sensorimotor subjectivity, are restricted; the dreamer's experience is turned inwards. In cognitive neurosciences, on the other hand, the generally accepted approach holds that dream formation is a direct result of neural activations in the absence of perception, and dreaming is often equated with "delusions." > Problem Can enactivism and phenomenology account for the variety of dream experiences? What kinds of experiential and empirical approaches are required in order to probe into dreaming subjectivity? Investigating qualities of perception, sensation, and embodiment in dreams, as well as the relationship between the dream-world and waking-world requires a step away from a delusional or altered-state framework of dream formation and a step toward an enactive integrative approach. > Method In this article, we will focus on the "depth" of dream experiences, i.e., what is possible in the dream state. Our article is divided into two parts: a theoretical framework for approaching dreaming from an enactive cognition standpoint; and discussion of the role and strategies for experimentation on dreaming. Based on phenomenology and theories of enactivism, we will argue for the primacy of subjectivity and imagination in the formation of lived experience. > Results We propose that neurophenomenology of dreaming is a nascent discipline that requires rethinking the relative role of third-, first-and second-person methodologies, and that a paradigm shift is required in order to investigate dreaming as a phenomenon on a continuum of conscious phenomena as opposed to a break from or an alteration of consciousness. > Implications Dream science, as part of the larger enterprise of consciousness and subjectivity studies, can be included in the enactive framework. This implies that dream experiences are neither passively lived nor functionally disconnected from dreamers' world and body. We propose the basis and some concrete strategies for an empirical enactive neurophenomenology of dreaming. We conclude that investigating dream experiences can illuminate qualities of subjective perception and relation to the world, and thus challenge the traditional subject-object juxtaposition. > Constructivist content This article argues for an interdisciplinary enactive cognitive science approach to dream studies.
730	enactive	2016	Malinin, LH	Creative Practices Embodied, Embedded, and Enacted in Architectural Settings: Toward an Ecological Model of Creativity	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Memoires by eminently creative people often describe architectural spaces and qualities they believe instrumental for their creativity. However, places designed to encourage creativity have had mixed results, with some found to decrease creative productivity for users. This may be due, in part, to lack of suitable empirical theory or model to guide design strategies. Relationships between creative cognition and features of the physical environment remain largely uninvestigated in the scientific literature, despite general agreement among researchers that human cognition is physically and socially situated. This paper investigates what role architectural settings may play in creative processes by examining documented first person and biographical accounts of creativity with respect to three central theories of situated cognition. First, the embodied thesis argues that cognition encompasses both the mind and the body. Second, the embedded thesis maintains that people exploit features of the physical and social environment to increase their cognitive capabilities. Third, the enaction thesis describes cognition as dependent upon a person's interactions with the world. Common themes inform three propositions, illustrated in a new theoretical framework describing relationships between people and their architectural settings with respect to different cognitive processes of creativity. The framework is intended as a starting point toward an ecological model of creativity, which may be used to guide future creative process research and architectural design strategies to support user creative productivity.
731	enactive	2016	Bizzari, V; Hipolito, I	PREDICTIVE ENGAGEMENT AND MOTOR INTENTIONALITY	ESERCIZI FILOSOFICI	In this paper we aim to show that motor intentionality, as the underlying ground for social cognition, can be explained through the predictive engagement model. Sensorimotor processes seem to play central roles in social interaction, cognition and language. We question the phenomenological role of the body in social cognition and further investigate a causal neural explanation. We will adopt a different perspective by linking the role of the body and intercorporeality with recent findings in philosophy of neuroscience under the predictive brain hypothesis. In fact, the living body seems to entertain a dialogical and enactive relationship with the surrounding context, as well as with neural circuits actively responding to external stimuli. The body is thus configured as a living organism, and not as a mere biological substratum, offering to phenomenology and empirical sciences further confirmations of the possibility-and need-for a cooperation.
732	enactive	2016	Bizzari, V; Hipolito, I	PREDICTIVE ENGAGEMENT AND MOTOR INTENTIONALITY	ESERCIZI FILOSOFICI	In this paper we aim to show that motor intentionality, as the underlying ground for social cognition, can be explained through the predictive engagement model. Sensorimotor processes seem to play central roles in social interaction, cognition and language. We question the phenomenological role of the body in social cognition and further investigate a causal neural explanation. We will adopt a different perspective by linking the role of the body and intercorporeality with recent findings in philosophy of neuroscience under the predictive brain hypothesis. In fact, the living body seems to entertain a dialogical and enactive relationship with the surrounding context, as well as with neural circuits actively responding to external stimuli. The body is thus configured as a living organism, and not as a mere biological substratum, offering to phenomenology and empirical sciences further confirmations of the possibility-and need-for a cooperation.
733	enactive	2016	Brito, CF; Marques, VX	Is There a Role for Computation in the Enactive Paradigm?	FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	The main contribution of this paper is a naturalized account of the phenomenon of computation. The key idea for the development of this account is the identification of the notion of syntactical processing (or information processing) with the dynamical evolution of a constrained physical process, based on the observation that both evolve according to an arbitrary set of rules. This identification, in turn, revealed that, from the physical point of view, computation could be understood in terms of the operation of a component subdivided into two parts, (a) the constrained process and (b) the constraints that control its dynamics, where the interactions with the rest of the system are mediated by configurational changes of the constrained process. The immediate consequence of this analysis is the observation that this notion of computation can be readily integrated into the enactive paradigm of cognition.
734	enactive	2016	Brody, J	The Enacted KOAN - An Agent's Knowledge of Agency	7TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES, (BICA 2016)	We present Knowledge Of Action Networks, which provide an enactive machine learning model for knowledge of agency in artificial intelligence. These networks, which are expected to be part of embodied intelligences existing in dynamic environments, learn to represent their environment while simultaneously learning to represent their own actions and bodies within that environment. Thus self and world are intricately coupled in their basic representations. We will also explore some of the (many) expected contributions of such networks for implementing minimal self-models, which are basic models of self-aware agents.
735	enactive	2016	Cappuccio, ML	The Seminal Speculation of a Precursor: Elements of Embodied Cognition and Situated AI in Alan Turing	FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE	Turing's visionary contribution to cognitive science is not limited to the foundation of the symbolist approach to cognition and to the exploration of the connectionist approach: it additionally anticipated the germinal disclosure of the embodied approach. Even if Turing never directly dealt with the foundational speculation on the conceptual premises of embodiment, in his theoretical papers we find traces of the idea that a cognitive agent must develop a history of coupling with its natural and social environment, and that primitive bodily stimuli like pain and pleasure drive this coupling and elevate it to real learning by setting its normative preconditions. Turing did not consistently defend the centrality of embodiment, and ended up confounding or deemphasizing in various occasions the critical importance that he had himself implicitly recognized to the body. In line with the anti-representationist, radically enactive approaches to basic cognition, I believe that if Turing eventually failed to fully value the cognitive-developmental role played by the body, this was not because he proposed a computational and functionalist model of the mind, but because he tacitly assumed the content/vehicle dichotomy as a primitive of that model: in fact, he still believed that intelligence is a realized by decontextualized contents that can be detached and transmitted regardless of their mode of physical implementation.
736	enactive	2016	Gallagher, S	Pragmatic Interventions into Enactive and Extended Conceptions of Cognition	PRAGMATISM AND EMBODIED COGNITIVE SCIENCE: FROM BODILY INTERSUBJECTIVITY TO SYMBOLIC ARTICULATION	Clear statements of both extended and enactive conceptions of cognition can be found in John Dewey and other pragmatists. In this paper I'll argue that we can find resources in the pragmatists to address two ongoing debates: (1) in contrast to recent disagreements between proponents of extended vs enactive cognition, pragmatism supports a more integrative view-an enactive conception of extended cognition, and (2) pragmatist views suggest ways to answer the main objections raised against extended and enactive conceptions-specifically objections focused on constitution versus causal factors, and the mark of the mental.
737	enactive	2016	Jansen, J	Imagination and 4E Cognition: An Analytic-Continental Exchange	ANALYTIC AND CONTINENTAL PHILOSOPHY: METHODS AND PERSPECTIVES	The interdisciplinary field of phenomenology and cognitive science is thriving. Recently, it has gained even further ground through the rise of a new cluster of paradigms in philosophy of mind and cognitive science, which can be collectively referred as the model of "4E cognition". This model takes cognitive processes to be Embodied, Enactive, Embedded, and/or Extended. Those 4 e's enable fertile crossovers between analytic and continental approaches in philosophy of mind, phenomenology, and cognitive science. All of this is very promising indeed. However, despite the irrefutable significance of these new developments, more work needs to be done to ease up constraints and limitations that attest to the lasting effects of "common sense" naturalist, or positivist biases in philosophy of mind and the cognitive sciences. These biases may have little effect on research focused on perceptual cognition, but they pose noticeable constraints on research focused on imagination. In this paper, I identify and then challenge some of these biases with a view to making the model of 4E cognition more obviously applicable to issues of imagination. However, I believe it is important to acknowledge that other obstacles also hamper imagination research in significant ways and for more than merely philosophical or scientific reasons.
738	enactive	2016	Lenartowicz, M; Weinbaum, D; Braathen, P	The Individuation of Social Systems: A Cognitive Framework	7TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES, (BICA 2016)	We present a socio-human cognitive framework that radically deemphasizes the role of individual human agents required for both the formation of social systems and their ongoing operation thereafter. Our point of departure is Simondon's (1992) theory of individuation, which we integrate with the enactive theory of cognition (Di Paolo et al., 2010) and Luhmann's (1996) theory of social systems. This forges a novel view of social systems as complex, individuating sequences of communicative interactions that together constitute distributed yet distinct cognitive agencies, acquiring a capacity to exert influence over their human-constituted environment. We conclude that the resulting framework suggests several different paths of integrating AI agents into human society. One path suggests the emulation of a largely simplified version of the human mind, reduced in its functions to a specific triple selection-making which is necessary for sustaining social systems. Another one conceives AI systems that follow the distributed, autonomous architecture of social systems, instead that of humans.
739	enactive	2016	Rodriguez, DAL; Cardenas, F	Neurodynamics Approach to Social Cognition	UNIVERSITAS PSYCHOLOGICA	In recent decades it has seen a growing interest to study the mechanisms involved in social behavior, much of these inquiries fall within social cognitive neuroscience approach, which is based on a representational model of information processing. However, this approach has been widely criticized for ignoring the body participation, emotional dynamics, social context, developmental changes and assuming an endogenous modular processing. In this regard, this article presents a neurodynamic model of social cognition, which understand social process from an enactive, embodied, situated, relational and systemic perspective. This model let us described the main expected changes in brain activity during ongoing social interactions and ontogeny. The conclusion highlights the challenges and opportunities that this kind of approach can provide for a coming neuroscience and social psychology.
740	enactive	2016	Mottet, M; Eccles, DW; Saury, J	Navigation in outdoor environments as an embodied, social, cultural, and situated experience: An empirical study of orienteering	SPATIAL COGNITION AND COMPUTATION	This study investigated novices' lived experiences of navigation within the sport of orienteering from an enactive and phenomenological approach. The objective was to qualitatively characterize elements of task-related situations that were meaningful for orienteers. The results showed that the participants continuously made judgments about the reliability of their estimations about whether they were on the right route on the course. When the participants judged that they were only approximately on the right route or were unable to locate themselves, elements of the situation other than map and terrain features became meaningful for them. These results demonstrate that, for novice orienteers, navigation activity must extend beyond navigation as a logical, computational way-finding problem to include embodied, social, cultural and situated dimensions.
741	enactive	2016	Turner, P	Enactive Cognition	HCI REDUX: THE PROMISE OF POST-COGNITIVE INTERACTION	0
742	enactive	2016	Viola, T	Peirce on Abduction and Embodiment	PRAGMATISM AND EMBODIED COGNITIVE SCIENCE: FROM BODILY INTERSUBJECTIVITY TO SYMBOLIC ARTICULATION	The paper explores C. S. Peirce's relevance to embodied cognitive science, by discussing his notion of abduction, or hypothetical inference. It first maintains that the concept of abduction may be read as Peirce's anti-intuitionist attempt to explain the phenomenon of intellectual creativity. Then, it investigates the consequences of that concept for theories of enactive, embodied, and extended mind. Peirce is shown to rely on an enactive understanding of logical inference and to believe that our bodily constitution plays at least a minimal role in thought, as we need the cooperation of "the eyes and the hands" to bring about new cognitions. Yet the latter idea stops short of turning into a full-fledged commitment to embodiment, as Peirce also stresses the possibility for thought to undergo different material realizations. This may help us to recognize a difference between Peirce's account of cognition and phenomenologically oriented theories of embodiment. The paper suggests that this difference is related to pragmatism's and phenomenology's differing views as to whether we can have an intuitive grasp of reality.
743	enactive	2015	Vasterling, V	Heidegger's hermeneutic account of cognition	PHENOMENOLOGY AND THE COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Hermeneutic phenomenology is absent in 4 EAC literature (embedded, embodied, enactive, extended and affective cognition). The aim of this article is to show that hermeneutic phenomenology as elaborated in the work of Heidegger is relevant to 4 EAC research. In the first part of the article I describe the hermeneutic turn Heidegger performs in tandem with his ontological turn of transcendental phenomenology, and the hermeneutic account of cognition resulting from it. I explicate the main thesis of the hermeneutic account, namely that cognition is interaction with the world, followed by a discussion of the modes of cognition distinguished in the hermeneutic account. In the second part of the article I discuss the implications of this account with respect to the status and meaning of first, second and third person perspective of cognition. The article concludes with the draft and discussion of an exploratory model of hermeneutic cognition.
744	enactive	2015	Stapleton, M	A Dynamic Expedition through the Affective Landscape	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Colombetti's book is a contribution to the literature of at least three intellectual communities within philosophy and the cognitive sciences: affective science, embodiment, and enactivism. Despite the emphasis on embodiment over the past ten to fifteen years, and the resurgence of interest in emotion in the mid-to-late twentieth century, affect nevertheless remains underrepresented in the philosophy of mind and cognition, even in the embodiment and enactive communities. In her book, Colombetti helps to close this gap in the literature.
745	enactive	2015	Hadorn, B; Courant, M; Hirsbrunner, B	Holistic Integration of Enactive Entities into Cyber Physical Systems	2015 IEEE 2ND INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CYBERNETICS (CYBCONF)	Cyber physical systems (CPSs) are built of physical components that are integrated into the cyber (virtual) world of computing. Whereas there are many open questions and challenges, such as time modeling, interaction between cyber and physical components, our research focuses on how humans can be holistically integrated. Our vision is to link human intelligence with CPS in order to get a smart partner for daily human activities. This will bring new system characteristics enabling to cope with self-awareness, cognition and creativity as well as the co-evolution of human-machine-symbiosis. In this sense, we state that drawing borders between virtual and physical or between users and technical artifacts is misleading. In contrast to that, we aim to treat the system as a whole. To achieve this, the paper presents a generic coordination model based on third-order cybernetics. In particular, the holistic integration of humans and other living systems into CPSs is presented, which leads toward human-centered CPSs.
746	enactive	2014	Loughlin, V	Radical enactivism, Wittgenstein and the cognitive gap	ADAPTIVE BEHAVIOR	REC or radical enactive (or embodied) cognition involves the claim that certain forms of mentality do not involve informational content and are instead to be equated with temporally and spatially extended physical interactions between an agent and the environment. REC also claims however that other forms of mentality do involve informational content and are scaffolded by socially and linguistically enabled practices. This seems to raise what can be called a cognitive gap question, namely, how do non-contentful behaviours give rise to contentful behaviours? In this paper, I show how REC can tackle a certain understanding of this question. I argue that if REC were to endorse claims made by the later Wittgenstein, then REC could deny that there is any (synchronous) gap in our intelligent behaviour.
747	enactive	2014	Uithol, S; Maranesi, M	No need to match: a comment on Bach, Nicholson and Hudson's "Affordance-Matching Hypothesis"	FRONTIERS IN HUMAN NEUROSCIENCE	0
748	enactive	2014	De Jesus, P	Can the revolution be optimised? Oh yes it can! But, maybe not. Report on the one day symposium on "Varieties of Enactivism"	CONNECTION SCIENCE	The Varieties of Enactivism: A Conceptual Geography 4th April 2014, was a one day symposium which took place at Goldsmith University, London. The symposium had the explicit aim of clarifying the status of enactive cognitive science both as a unified paradigm for cognitive science and in relation to the broader embodied cognition framework. In what follows I offer a brief summery of the various talks followed by some thoughts on the current state of play within enactivism.
749	enactive	2014	Troscianko, ET	First-Person and Second-Generation Perspectives on Starvation in Kafka's "Ein Hungerkunstler"	STYLE	An important claim made for second-generation accounts of cognition is that they help solve the problem of dualism, which arguably remains unchallenged in much literary criticism. Kafka's short story "Ein Hungerkunstler" (A Hunger Artist) is about a profoundly embodied experience of (unsuccessfully) denying embodiment: fasting to death. With this text's cognitive realism as my focal point, I use insights from second-generation cognitive science (which acknowledges the embodied, embedded, enactive, and extended nature of human cognition), including research on eating disorders and starvation, to provide purchase on two traditional literary-critical concerns: thematic interpretation and paradox. I also suggest that a first-person perspective which acknowledges the complexities of individual real-world embodiment may sometimes enrich cognitive literary studies. This combined first-person and second-generation methodology can help us recognize that for the real people who read our scholarship and learn from us, the dangers of dualism are ethically as well as interpretively profound.
750	enactive	2014	Di Paolo, EA	Enactive Cognition at the Edge of Sense-Making Making Sense of Non-Sense Foreword	ENACTIVE COGNITION AT THE EDGE OF SENSE-MAKING: MAKING SENSE OF NON-SENSE	0
751	enactive	2013	Sato, Y; Iizuka, H; Ikegami, T	Investigating Extended Embodiment Using a Computational Model and Human Experimentation	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Context . Our body schema is not restricted to biological body boundaries (such as the skin), as can be seen in the use of a cane by a person who is visually impaired or the "rubber hands" experiment. The tool becomes a part of the body schema when the focus of our attention is shifted from the tool to the task to be performed. Problem . A body schema is formed through interactions among brain, body, tool, and environment. Nevertheless, the dynamic mechanisms underlying changes in the body schema are still not fully understood. Method . To study the changing conditions of the body schema (e.g., a shift of attention), a simulation model of object discrimination was extended to differentiate between two kinds of sensitivities - sensitivity to an object being directly manipulated and sensitivity to another object being manipulated by the first. The proposed model consisted of windmills with different numbers of vanes. A model agent was required to determine the number of vanes on a windmill by touching the vanes blindly with an arm controlled by a neural network. Placing a second windmill beside the first and gearing the two windmills to move associatively resulted in the agent using the first windmill as a tool with which to discern the number of vanes on the second windmill. In other words, an agent's body schema can shift from its arm tip to the boundary between the first and second windmills. We then introduced an experiment with a real windmill model to test the hypothesis demonstrated by the theoretical model. Results . We demonstrated that even simple computational agents can have two different sensitivities to the windmills. One agent becomes sensitive to the first windmill and insensitive to the second one. Another agent becomes insensitive to the first windmill and sensitive to the second one by using the first one as a tool. Therefore, we concluded that the boundary of the body schema was extended to the first windmill in the case of the latter agent because paying attention to the task to be performed instead of the tool itself is essential for the tool to be considered as part of the body schema. Analysis of the experiments using a computational model and human experimentation revealed that a shift from an irregular to a regular movement of a windmill is an indication of extension of the body schema. Constructivist content . Our insights are beneficial for enactive cognitive science. This is because an extended body schema questions the Cartesian separation between subject and object, and the self and the environment.
752	enactive	2013	Bottineau, D	The marker 'en' in enactive instructional linguistics	LANGUE FRANCAISE	The question whether the marker en in the various categories in which it appears (as a preposition and as various types of pronouns) has been widely debated. The present study is conducted in the theoretical framework of instructional grammars, which define signifiers as the activators of interpretive processes rather than as symbolic markers encoding mental representations, and it refers more specifically to enactive grammar. It is shown that it is possible to envisage a transcategorial core value of dynamic, non-representational nature, which applies to the whole range of grammatical categories in which this marker is manifested (preposition, gerundive particle, various types of pronouns and "fuzzy" particles).
753	enactive	2013	Mcclamrock, R	Visual Consciousness and The Phenomenology of Perception	METAPHILOSOPHY	Ideally, psychological and phenomenological studies of visual experience should be mutually informative. In that spirit, this article outlines parts of Maurice Merleau-Ponty's phenomenological view of visual experience as a kind of independently active opaque bodily synthesis, and uses those views to (a) help ground and extend Alva Noe's rejection of the snapshot theory of visual experience in favor of a more enactive view of visual content, (b) critique a failing of Noe's account, and (c) show how the assumptions underlying more internalist and Cartesian views of visual experience can illegitimately creep in even when they are being carefully criticized.
754	enactive	2012	Matyja, JR	Me, Music, and I: Embodied and Enactive Cognition meets Music	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	> Upshot . The fact that both "consciousness" and "music" are quite elusive terms makes the attempt to explain the nature (or even the existence of) "musical consciousness" a compelling quest. The papers in this book tackle these problems in an engaging way, ranging from sociology of music to drug altered music cognition. Some also apply enactive and ecological approaches to music cognition, which makes the book an interesting read for constructivists.
755	enactive	2011	Magalhaes, R	Re-interpreting Organization Design in the Light of Enacted Cognition Theory	SYSTEMS RESEARCH AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE	This paper discusses how the concept of organization design can be made more relevant if treated as a process of social cognition. It is argued that Varela's enactive cognition approach throws new light on organization design given the way it views the relationship between the system and its environment. In highlighting that any cognitive entity develops its own internal perspective and that it is that perspective which mediates the relationship between the system and its environment, the notion of environmental contingency loses much of its sense. Using this approach as the main intellectual backdrop, as well as the principles behind the social construction of organization, a new systemic model of organization design is put forward. It features a cycle of four key organizational elements (strategic choice, domains of interaction, identity formation and shared meanings) shaped by two types of design rules (procedural/generative and practice based). These elements are interpreted in terms of the key features of enactivism (embodiment, sensemaking, experience, emergence and autonomy) and discussed in the light of extant literature on organization design. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
756	enactive	2011	Protevi, J; Wheeler, M	Essentially Embodied, Emotive, Enactive Social Cognition	EMBODIMENT, EMOTION, AND COGNITION	0
757	enactive	2011	Vernon, D	Reconciling Autonomy with Utility: A Roadmap and Architecture for Cognitive Development	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES 2011	This paper focusses on a general issue which arises when one attempts to design a cognitive architecture for autonomous cognitive systems: the incompatibility of autonomy with external control and the consequent problem of getting these systems to perform prescribed tasks. In addressing this issue, we consider a specific endeavour to design and implement a biologically-inspired cognitive architecture for the iCub humanoid robot. This architecture is based on 43 guidelines arising from an extended study of the requirements imposed by developmental psychology, neuroscience, enactive cognition, and existing computational models.
758	enactive	2010	Kiverstein, J	Consciousness and the feeling body	PRAGMATICS & COGNITION	In How the Mind Uses the Brain Ralph Ellis and Natika Newton develop a novel embodied, enactive theory of consciousness, according to which consciousness has its basis in neural systems that prepare the system to perform actions of emotional significance to the organism. Consciousness emerges out of self-organising processes which function in such a way as to contribute to, and maintain, the organism's overall wellbeing. I'll begin this review by reconstructing Ellis and Newton's view of consciousness as a self-organising process, and then go on to compare and contrast the enactive theory with the model of consciousness Chris Frith has outlined in his lectures.
759	enactive	2010	Schlicht, T	Enactive Social Cognition	COGNITION IN FLUX	In this talk, 1 extend the enactive approach to cognition to the social domain within a larger framework of varieties of intentionality and argue for a second-person approach to understanding others, emphasizing a difference in our understanding of others depending on whether we are directly engaged with them in interaction or merely observing them. The enactive account is especially persuasive in developmental respects, suggesting that sophisticated forms of cognitive intentionality (e.g. believing) are grounded in motor intentionality (e.g. perception and action): Our own sensorimotor skills are partly constitutive of cognition, and other people's expressions of their sensorimotor skills in turn modulate our cognition of objects and our social understanding. The enactive account explains how young infants acquire the capacities that allow them to move from dyadic to triadic intentional relations at around their first birthday, and it claims that our basic form of social understanding is neither based on theoretical inference nor a kind of simulation, but constituted by an embodied implicit know-how displayed in online interaction.
760	enactive	2009	Keijzer, F	Trends in Embodied Cognition. Tensions Concerning Biology and Conscious Experience	TIJDSCHRIFT VOOR FILOSOFIE	Embodied cognition has come of age and is now diversifying. In this paper, I discuss four different approaches within embodied cognition: a biogenic approach, an enactive approach, a sensorimotor approach and a scaffolding approach. The four approaches can be differentiated according to their commitments to either biology (biogenic and enactive approaches) and/or experience (enactive and sensorimotor approaches). I will argue that these differences are substantial, but that a reconciliation is possible and even desirable. Seen in this light, embodied cognition can remain a comparatively unified field, these diverging approaches notwithstanding.
761	enactive	2009	Knyazeva, H	Nonlinear Cobweb of Cognition	FOUNDATIONS OF SCIENCE	The modern conception of enactive cognition is under discussion from the standpoint concerning the notions of nonlinear dynamics and synergetics. The contribution of Francisco Varela and his precursors is considered. It is shown that the perceptual and mental processes are bound up with the "architecture" of human body and nonlinear and circular connecting links between the subject of cognition and the world constructed by him can be metaphorically called a nonlinear cobweb of cognition. Cognition is an autopoietic activity because it is directed to the search of elements that are missed; it serves to completing integral structures.
762	enactive	2009	Morse, AF	NEURAL MODELS OF PREDICTION AND SUSTAINED INATTENTIONAL BLINDNESS	CONNECTIONIST MODELS OF BEHAVIOUR AND COGNITION II	Increasingly cognitive scientists view prediction as central to cognition, from philosophical and psychological theories such as the enactive approach and sensorimotor perception [1-3], to computational neuroscience and modelling e.g. [4-7]. Indeed, as our experiments show, prediction can significantly increase the recognition of task relevant input features in models of cortical micro-columns (Echo State Networks) [8-11]. Here, feedback into the cortical micro-column is simply the output activity of single layer perceptrons trained to identify input features from the activity of the cortical microcolumn. The surprising result is that while this feedback or prediction enhances recognition of features relevant to making that prediction, it consistently reduces performance at recognising non-prediction-task-relevant-features and hence provides a model of sustained inattentional blindness. This is confirmed in our computational model of a sustained inattentional blindness task demonstrating the role of feedback in successfully tracking the attended object, and how this can result in blindness to the presence of an unexpected object. The model therefore suggests that tuning input filters with predictions of what the sensory system should expect, may be the cause of inattentional blindness. While Simons and Chabris [12] note that "we perceive and remember only those objects and details that receive focused attention." p. 1059, our model suggests that the relevant information simply was not there to be attended.
763	enactive	2009	Riva, G	Being-in-the-world-with: Presence Meets Social And Cognitive Neuroscience	FROM COMMUNICATION TO PRESENCE: COGNITION, EMOTIONS AND CULTURE TOWARDS THE ULTIMATE COMMUNICATIVE EXPERIENCE: FESTSCHRIFT IN HONOR OF LUIGI ANOLLI	In this chapter we will discuss the concepts of "presence" (Inner Presence) and "social presence" (Co-presence) within a cognitive and ecological perspective. Specifically, we claim that the concepts of "presence" and "social presence" are the possible links between self, action, communication and culture. In the first section we will provide a capsule view of Heidegger's work by examining the two main features of the Heideggerian concept of "being": spatiality and " being with". We argue that different visions from social and cognitive sciences - Situated Cognition, Embodied Cognition, Enactive Approach, Situated Simulation, Covert Imitation - and discoveries from neuroscience - Mirror and Canonical Neurons - have many contact points with this view. In particular, these data suggest that our conceptual system dynamically produces contextualized representations (simulations) that support grounded action in different situations. This is allowed by a common coding the motor code - shared by perception, action and concepts. This common coding also allows the subject for natively recognizing actions done by other selves within the phenomenological contents. In this picture we argue that the role of presence and social presence is to allow the process of self-identification through the separation between "self" and "other," and between "internal" and "external". Finally, implications of this position for communication and media studies are discussed by way of conclusion.
764	enactive	2008	Moser, S	"Walking and Falling" Language as Media Embodiment	CONSTRUCTIVIST FOUNDATIONS	Purpose - This paper aims to mediate Josef Mitterer's non-dualistic philosophy with the claim that speaking is a process of embodied experience. Approach - Key assumptions of enactive cognitive science, such as the crossmodal integration of speech and gesture and the perceptual grounding of linguistic concepts are illustrated through selected performance pieces of multimedia artist Laurie Anderson. Findings - The analysis of Anderson's artistic work questions a number of dualisms that guide truth-oriented models of language. Her performance pieces demonstrate that language is both sensually enacted and conceptually reflected through the integration of iconic signing (e.g. sound play, dance) with symbolic communication. Moreover, Anderson's artistic practice demonstrates that media such as voice, gesture and recording technologies realize different forms of embodied language. Benefits - Media aesthetics in the vein of embodied cognition can overcome a number of the dualisms that inform analytical philosophy of language, linguistics, and communication studies, such as perceptual/conceptual meaning, iconicity/symbolicity, emotion/cognition, body/technology and voice/script.
765	enactive	2007	Vernon, D; Metta, G; Sandini, G	The iCub cognitive architecture: Interactive development in a humanoid robot	2007 IEEE 6TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON DEVELOPMENT AND LEARNING	This paper describes the design of a cognitive architecture for the iCub : an open-systems 53 degree-of-freedom cognitive humanoid robot. At 94 cm tall, the iCub is the same size as a three year-old child and is designed to be able to crawl on all fours and sit up. Its hands will allow dexterous manipulation, its head and eyes are fully articulated, and it has visual, vestibular, auditory, and haptic sensory capabilities. We begin by reviewing briefly the enactive approach to cognition, highlighting the requirements for phylogenetic configuration, the necessity for ontogenetic development, and the importance of humanoid embodiment. After a short look at the the iCub's mechanical and electronic specifications, we detail the iCub cognitive architecture, addressing the iCub phylogeny, i.e. the robot's intended innate abilities, the modulation of these skills by circuits inspired by the functionality of the hippocampus, basal ganglia, and amygdala. The architecture also include a prospective ability whereby sensorimotor behaviours can be simulated and then used to influence the action selection in the basal ganglia. We conclude by outlining our scenario for ontogenesis based on human neo-natal development.
766	enactive	2000	Goldspink, C	Modelling social systems as complex: Towards a social simulation meta-model	JASSS-THE JOURNAL OF ARTIFICIAL SOCIETIES AND SOCIAL SIMULATION	There is growing interest in extending complex systems approaches to the social sciences. This is apparent in the increasingly widespread literature and journals that deal with the topic and is being facilitated by adoption of multi-agent simulation in research. Much of this research uses simple agents to explore limited aspects of social behaviour. Incorporation of higher order capabilities such as cognition into agents has proven problematic. Influenced by AI approaches, where cognitive capability has been sought, it has commonly been attempted based on a 'representational' theory of cognition. This has proven computationally expensive and difficult to implement. There would be some benefit: also in the development of a framework for social simulation research which provides a consistent set of assumptions applicable in different fields and which can be scaled to apply to simple and more complex simulation tasks. This paper sets out, as a basis for discussion, a meta-model incorporating an 'enactive' model of cognition drawing on both complex system insights and the theory of autopoiesis. It is intended to provide an ontology that avoids some of the limitation of more traditional approaches and at the same time providing a basis for simulation in a wide range of fields and pursuant of a wider range of human behaviours.
767	enactive	2000	Mingers, J	Information systems: The case of the missing body	CHALLENGES OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT IN THE 21ST CENTURY	This paper presents a case for embodying information systems. That is, for recognising the fundamental importance of the body in human cognition and social action, and for exploring the consequences in information systems. Current work within philosophy, biology cognitive science, and social theory demonstrates that the Cartesian dualism of mind and body is no longer tenable, and points to the embodied and enactive nature of thought and language. Three different approaches to cognition are identified and their underlying philosophies are exemplified by Husserl, Heidegger, and Merleau-Ponty respectively.
768	symbolic	1997	Lovett, MC; Reder, LM; Lebiere, C	Modeling individual differences in a digit working memory task	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Individual differences in working memory are an important source of information for refining theories of memory and cognition. Computational modeling is an effective tool for studying individual differences because it allows researchers to maintain the basic structure of a theory while perturbing a particular component. This paper presents a computational model for a digit working memory task and demonstrates that varying a single parameter captures individual differences in that task. The model is developed within the framework of the ACT-R theory (Anderson, 1993), and the continuous parameter manipulated represents attentional capacity for the current goal.
769	symbolic	2014	Anderson, JR; Fincham, JM	Extending problem-solving procedures through reflection	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A large-sample (n = 75) fMRI study guided the development of a theory of how people extend their problem-solving procedures by reflecting on them. Both children and adults were trained on a new mathematical procedure and then were challenged with novel problems that required them to change and extend their procedure to solve these problems. The fMRI data were analyzed using a combination of hidden Markov models (HMMs) and multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA). This HMM-MVPA analysis revealed the existence of 4 stages: Encoding, Planning, Solving, and Responding. Using this analysis as a guide, an ACT-R model was developed that improved the performance of the HMM-MVPA and explained the variation in the durations of the stages across 128 different problems. The model assumes that participants can reflect on declarative representations of the steps of their problem-solving procedures. A Metacognitive module can hold these steps, modify them, create new declarative steps, and rehearse them. The Metacognitive module is associated with activity in the rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC). The ACT-R model predicts the activity in the RLPFC and other regions associated with its other cognitive modules (e.g., vision, retrieval). Differences between children and adults seemed related to differences in background knowledge and computational fluency, but not to the differences in their capability to modify procedures. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
770	symbolic	2010	Chikhaoui, B; Pigot, H	Towards analytical evaluation of human machine interfaces developed in the context of smart homes	INTERACTING WITH COMPUTERS	Designing human machine interfaces that respect the ergonomic norms and following rigorous approaches constitutes a major concern for computer systems designers. The increased need on easily accessible and usable interfaces leads researchers in this domain to create methods and models that make it possible to evaluate these interfaces in terms of utility and usability. Two different approaches are currently used to evaluate human machine interfaces, empirical approaches that require user involvement in the interface development process, and analytical approaches that do not associate the user during the interface development process. This paper presents a study of user performance on two principal tasks of the contextual assistant's interface, developed in the context of smart homes, to assist persons with cognitive disabilities. We use three different methods to analyze and evaluate this interface, focusing basically on time of execution. Two of the models developed are based on cognitive models, which are ACT-R and GOMS and the third one is based on the Fitts' Law model. The results show that, all models give a good prediction of user performance, even if the cognitive models show better accuracy of the user performance. Furthermore, they provide a better insight into cognitive abilities required to interact with the interface. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
771	symbolic	2007	Gunzelmann, G; Lyon, DR	Mechanisms for human spatial competence	SPATIAL COGNITION V: REASONING, ACTION, INTERACTION	Research spanning decades has generated a long list of phenomena associated with human spatial information processing. Additionally, a number of theories have been proposed about the representation, organization and processing of spatial information by humans. This paper presents a broad account of human spatial competence, integrated with the ACT-R cognitive architecture. Using a cognitive architecture grounds the research in a validated theory of human cognition, enhancing the plausibility of the overall account. This work posits a close link of aspects of spatial information processing to vision and motor planning, and integrates theoretical perspectives that have been proposed over the history of research in this area. In addition, the account is supported by evidence from neuropsychological investigations of human spatial ability. The mechanisms provide a means of accounting for a broad range of phenomena described in the experimental literature.
772	symbolic	2000	Gerjets, P; Scheiter, K; Tack, WH	Resource-adaptive selection of strategies in learning from worked-out examples	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Most tasks can be pursued by using different strategies (Logan, 1985; Reder & Schunn, 1998). In this paper we focus on strategies of learning from worked-out examples. Within a resource-oriented framework these different strategics can be classified according to their costs and benefits. These features may determine which strategy will be selected for accomplishing a task in situations with certain resource limitations. We investigate specific hypotheses about strategic adaptations to resource limitations (e.g., time pressure or lack of prior knowledge) within a hypertext-based learning environment. A comparison of the strategy selection of good and poor learners is used to assess the degree of subjects' resource adaptivity. Ideas for modeling resource-adaptive selection of strategies within the ACT-R architecture are discussed.
773	symbolic	2014	Kush, D; Phillips, C	Local anaphor licensing in an SOV language: implications for retrieval strategies	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	Because morphological and syntactic constraints govern the distribution of potential antecedents for local anaphors, local antecedent retrieval might be expected to make equal use of both syntactic and morphological cues. However, previous research (e.g., Dillon et al., 2013) has shown that local antecedent retrieval is not susceptible to the same morphological interference effects observed during the resolution of morphologically-driven grammatical dependencies, such as subject-verb agreement checking (e.g., Peal-a-nutter et al., 1999). Although this lack of interference has been taken as evidence that syntactic cues are given priority over morphological cues in local antecedent retrieval, the absence of interference could also be the result of a confound in the materials used: the post-verbal position of local anaphors in prior studies may obscure morphological interference that would otherwise be visible if the critical anaphor were in a different position. We investigated the licensing of local anaphors (reciprocals) in Hindi, an SOV language, in order to determine whether pre-verbal anaphors are subject to morphological interference from feature-matching distractors in a way that post-verbal anaphors are not. Computational simulations using a version of the ACT-R parser (Lewis and Vasishth, 2005) predicted that a feature-matching distractor should facilitate the processing of an unlicensed reciprocal if morphological cues are used in antecedent retrieval. In a self-paced reading study we found no evidence that distractors eased processing of an unlicensed reciprocal. However, the presence of a distractor increased difficulty of processing following the reciprocal. We discuss the significance of these results for theories of cue selection in retrieval.
774	symbolic	2014	Liang, PP; Jia, XQ; Taatgen, NA; Zhong, N; Li, KC	Different strategies in solving series completion inductive reasoning problems: An fMRI and computational study	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGY	Neural correlate of human inductive reasoning process is still unclear. Number series and letter series completion are two typical inductive reasoning tasks, and with a common core component of rule induction. Previous studies have demonstrated that different strategies are adopted in number series and letter series completion tasks; even the underlying rules are identical. In the present study, we examined cortical activation as a function of two different reasoning strategies for solving series completion tasks. The retrieval strategy, used in number series completion tasks, involves direct retrieving of arithmetic knowledge to get the relations between items. The procedural strategy, used in letter series completion tasks, requires counting a certain number of times to detect the relations linking two items. The two strategies require essentially the equivalent cognitive processes, but have different working memory demands (the procedural strategy incurs greater demands). The procedural strategy produced significant greater activity in areas involved in memory retrieval (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, DLPFC) and mental representation/maintenance (posterior parietal cortex, PPC). An ACT-R model of the tasks successfully predicted behavioral performance and BOLD responses. The present findings support a general-purpose dual-process theory of inductive reasoning regarding the cognitive architecture. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
775	symbolic	2013	Salvucci, DD	Integration and Reuse in Cognitive Skill Acquisition	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Previous accounts of cognitive skill acquisition have demonstrated how procedural knowledge can be obtained and transformed over time into skilled task performance. This article focuses on a complementary aspect of skill acquisition, namely the integration and reuse of previously known component skills. The article posits that, in addition to mechanisms that proceduralize knowledge into more efficient forms, skill acquisition requires tight integration of newly acquired knowledge and previously learned knowledge. Skill acquisition also benefits from reuse of existing knowledge across disparate task domains, relying on indexicals to reference and share necessary information across knowledge components. To demonstrate these ideas, the article proposes a computational model of skill acquisition from instructions focused on integration and reuse, and applies this model to account for behavior across seven task domains.
776	symbolic	2011	Trafton, JG; Harrison, AM	Embodied Spatial Cognition	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We present a spatial system called Specialized Egocentrically Coordinated Spaces embedded in an embodied cognitive architecture (ACT-R Embodied). We show how the spatial system works by modeling two different developmental findings: gaze-following and Level 1 perspective taking. The gaze-following model is based on an experiment by Corkum and Moore (1998), whereas the Level 1 visual perspective-taking model is based on an experiment by Moll and Tomasello (2006). The models run on an embodied robotic system.
777	symbolic	2010	Reitter, D; Lebiere, C	A cognitive model of spatial path-planning	COMPUTATIONAL AND MATHEMATICAL ORGANIZATION THEORY	Planning a path to a destination, given a number of options and obstacles, is a common task. We suggest a two-component cognitive model that combines retrieval of knowledge about the environment with search guided by visual perception. In the first component, subsymbolic information, acquired during navigation, aids in the retrieval of declarative information representing possible paths to take. In the second component, visual information directs the search, which in turn creates knowledge for the first component. The model is implemented using the ACT-R cognitive architecture and makes realistic assumptions about memory access and shifts in visual attention. We present simulation results for memory-based high-level navigation in grid and tree structures, and visual navigation in mazes, varying relevant cognitive (retrieval noise and visual finsts) and environmental (maze and path size) parameters. The visual component is evaluated with data from a multi-robot control experiment, where subjects planned paths for robots to explore a building. We describe a method to compare trajectories without referring to aligned points in the itinerary. The evaluation shows that the model provides a good fit, but also that planning strategies may vary with task loads.
778	symbolic	2008	Anderson, JR; Qin, YL	Using brain Imaging to extract the structure of complex events at the rational time band	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	A functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was performed in which participants performed a complex series of mental calculations that spanned about 2 min. An Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) model [Anderson, J. R. How can the human mind occur in the physical universe? New York: Oxford University Press, 2007] was developed that successfully fit the distribution of latencies. This model generated predictions for the fMRI signal in six brain regions that have been associated with modules in the ACT-R theory. The model's predictions were confirmed for a fusiform region that reflects the visual module, for a prefrontal region that reflects the retrieval module, and for an anterior cingulate region that reflects the goal module. In addition, the only significant deviations to the motor region that reflects the manual module were anticipatory hand movements. In contrast, the predictions were relatively poor for a parietal region that reflects an imaginal module and for a caudate region that reflects the procedural module. Possible explanations of these poor fits are discussed. In addition, exploratory analyses were performed to find regions that might correspond to the predictions of the modules.
779	symbolic	2006	Ritter, FE; Van Rooy, D; St Amant, R; Simpson, K	Providing user models direct access to interfaces: An exploratory study of a simple interface with implications for HRI and HCI	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS MAN AND CYBERNETICS PART A-SYSTEMS AND HUMANS	Models of users are a way to understand and improve the usability of computer interfaces. We present here a model in ACT-R cognitive-modeling language that interacts with a publicly available driving simulation as a simple analog for robot interfaces. The model interacts with the unmodified Java interface by incorporating a novel use of bitmap parsing. The model's structure starts to describe the knowledge a human operator of a robot must have. The model also indicates some of the aspects of the task will be difficult for the operator. For example, the model's performance makes quantitative predictions about how robot speed will influence navigation quality, correlating well to human performance. While the model does not cover all aspects of human-robot interaction, it illustrates how providing user models access to an interface through its bitmap can lead to more accurate and more widely applicable model users.
780	symbolic	2004	Howes, A; Vera, A; Lewis, RL; McCurdy, M	Cognitive Constraint Modeling: A Formal Approach to Supporting Reasoning About Behavior	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	Cognitive Constraint Modeling (CCM) is an approach to reasoning about behavior that (1) provides a framework for investigating the hypothesis that skilled behavior is the optimal solution to a constraint satisfaction problem defined by objective, environmental, knowledge, and architectural constraints, (2) derives predictions of behavior from formal specifications of theory, (3) supports reasoning using both dependency-based and cascade-based ontologies for expressing temporal relationships between processes. A software tool that demonstrates the potential advantages of CCM is described. The tool, called CORE, can be used to partially automate the generation of behavioral predictions given a specification of the constraints. We explore the application of CORE to dual-task data previously modeled with EPIC and ACT-R.
781	symbolic	2004	Martin, MK; Gonzalez, C; Lebiere, C	Learning to make decisions in dynamic environments: ACT-R plays the beer game	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	Sterman (1989) proposed that decision makers misperceive the feedback provided by dynamically complex environments, and questioned whether people can learn to make effective decisions in such environments. We provide empirical evidence of learning in a well-known dynamic environment called the beer game. We then describe a preliminary version of an instance-based, dynamic decision making model built using the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The model mimics the general patterns of human behavior observed for aggregate performance across trials and local performance within trials. Implications for research on dynamic decision making are summarized.
782	symbolic	2004	Morfei, MZ; Hooker, K; Carpenter, J; Mix, C; Blakeley, E	Agentic and communal generative behavior in four areas of adult life: Implications for psychological well-being	JOURNAL OF ADULT DEVELOPMENT	Fifty mothers and 48 fathers of soon-to-be-independent children were interviewed to determine how agentic and communal generative themes would be reflected in parenting, occupation, volunteer work, and leisure activities. Mothers reported more communal themes (F{5, 83} = 2: 32, p < .05). Correlations between generativity and well-being resulted in a negative relationship for mothers in parenting communal generative acts (r = -.41, p = .007) and total generative acts (r = -.3, p = .05) as assessed by the interview. Negative correlations also emerged between mothers' well-being and communal generative acts from the Generative Behavior Checklist, (r = -.33, p = .02).
783	symbolic	1999	Anderson, JR; Reder, LM	Process, not representation: Reply to Radvansky (1999)	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The size of fan effects is determined by processes at retrieval, not by whether or not information is represented as situations. Evidence contradicts G. A. Radvansky's (1999) claim that time to retrieve information from a situation does not depend on the number of elements in the situation. Moreover, Radvansky's principles for ascribing situational models to experiments appear to be post hoc ways of redescribing the data. On the other hand, the evidence does support the Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) assumption that participants can adjust their attentional weightings and so produce differential fan effects. Moreover, the ACT-R theory of the fan effect is consistent with many other findings.
784	symbolic	1997	Dasilva, JS; Ikonomou, D; Erben, H	European R&D programs on third-generation mobile communication systems	IEEE PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS	European third-generation mobile communication systems aim to deliver new wideband multimedia services to the customer and to integrate all the different services of second-generation systems. The enabling platforms, technologies, and applications are the subject of thorough research in the framework of the recently launched ACTS R & D program, which is funded by the European Community and follows the RACE program. In the context of mobile and personal communications, the RACE program aimed at the development and validation of the necessary key technologies and concepts that would in the future constitute the ''building blocks'' of third-generation of mobile communication systems. The integration of these technology ''building blocks'' into a single new system constitutes the challenge that lies ahead for the ACTS program.
785	symbolic	1997	Koedinger, KR; MacLaren, BA	Implicit strategies and errors in an improved model of early algebra problem solving	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	We have been refining a cognitive model, written in ACT-R, of student performance in early algebra problem solving. "Early algebra" refers to a class of problems and competencies at the boundary between arithmetic and algebra. Our empirical studies in this domain establish a striking contrast between students' difficulties with symbolic algebra and their relative success with certain kinds of "intuitive" algebraic reasoning. To better understand this contrast, we analyzed student solutions to identify the strategies and errors exhibited and then set out to account for this detailed process data with the utility-based choice mechanism of ACT-R. Our first model contained production rules for explicitly selecting strategies and for making certain systematic errors or bugs. It provided a good quantitative fit to student performance data (R-2=.90), however, it had two qualitative shortcomings: 1) the productions for strategy selection appeared to serve no computational purpose and 2) the model systematically underpredicted the frequency of non-trivial errors on more complex problems. We created a new model in which explicit strategy selection was eliminated (strategic behavior is emergent) and in which failure to fire a production (an implicit, non-buggy error) is an option at every model choice point. Compared to the first model, this model achieved an equivalent quantitative fit with fewer productions and without the systematic deviations from the error data. We consider the implications of implicit strategies and errors for instruction.
786	symbolic	1994	LEBIERE, C; ANDERSON, JR; REDER, LM	ERROR MODELING IN THE ACT-R PRODUCTION SYSTEM	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	0
787	symbolic	2015	Hoffrage, U; Marewski, JN	Unveiling the Lady in Black: Modeling and aiding intuition	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	The cognitive and decision science literature on modeling and aiding intuitions in organizations is rich, but segregated. This special issue offers a sample of that literature, stimulating exchange and inspiring intuitions about intuition. A total of 16 articles bring together diverse approaches, such as naturalistic-decision-making, heuristics-and-biases, dual-processes, ACT-R, CLARION, Brunswikian, and Quantum-Probability-Theory, many of them co-authored by their founders. The articles cover computational models and verbal theories; experimental and observational work; laboratory and naturalistic research. Comprising various domains, such as consulting, investment, law, police, and morality, the articles relate intuition to implicit cognition, emotions, scope insensitivity, expertise, and representative experimental design. In this article, we map intuition across poles such as Enlightenment/Romanticism, reason/emotion, objectivity/subjectivity, inferences/qualia, Taylorism/universal scholarship, System 2/System 1, dichotomies/dialectics, and science/art. We discuss intuitions as inspirations, instincts, inferences, and insights. Finally, we review the contributions to this special issue, placing them into historical, philosophical, and societal contexts. (C) 2015 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
788	symbolic	2015	Thomson, R; Lebiere, C; Anderson, JR; Staszewski, J	A general instance-based learning framework for studying intuitive decision-making in a cognitive architecture	JOURNAL OF APPLIED RESEARCH IN MEMORY AND COGNITION	Cognitive architectures (e.g., ACT-R) have not traditionally been used to understand intuitive decision-making; instead, models tend to be designed with the intuitions of their modelers already hardcoded in the decision process. This is due in part to a fuzzy boundary between automatic and deliberative processes within the architecture. We argue that instance-based learning satisfies the conditions for intuitive decision-making described in Kahneman and Klein (2009), separates automatic from deliberative processes, and provides a general mechanism for the study of intuitive decision-making. To better understand the role of the environment in decision-making, we describe biases as arising from three sources: the mechanisms and limitations of the human cognitive architecture, the information structure in the task environment, and the use of heuristics and strategies to adapt performance to the dual constraints of cognition and environment. A unified decision-making model performing multiple complex reasoning tasks is described according to this framework. (C) 2014 Society for Applied Research in Memory and Cognition. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
789	symbolic	2011	Salvucci, DD; Taatgen, NA	Toward a Unified View of Cognitive Control	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Allen <link rid="b10">Newell (1973) once observed that psychology researchers were playing "twenty questions with nature," carving up human cognition into hundreds of individual phenomena but shying away from the difficult task of integrating these phenomena with unifying theories. We argue that research on cognitive control has followed a similar path, and that the best approach toward unifying theories of cognitive control is that proposed by Newell, namely developing theories in computational cognitive architectures. Threaded cognition, a recent theory developed within the ACT-R cognitive architecture, offers promise as a unifying theory of cognitive control that addresses multitasking phenomena for both laboratory and applied task domains.
790	symbolic	2010	Ball, J; Myers, C; Heiberg, A; Cooke, NJ; Matessa, M; Freiman, M; Rodgers, S	The synthetic teammate project	COMPUTATIONAL AND MATHEMATICAL ORGANIZATION THEORY	The main objective of the Synthetic Teammate project is to develop language and task enabled synthetic agents capable of being integrated into team training simulations. To achieve this goal, the agents must be able to closely match human behavior. The initial application for the synthetic teammate research is creation of an agent able to perform the functions of a pilot for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) simulation as part of a three-person team. The agent, or synthetic teammate, is being developed in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The major components include: language comprehension and generation, dialog management, agent-environment interaction, and situation assessment. Initial empirical results suggest that the agent-environment interaction is a good approximation to human behavior in the UAV environment, and we are planning further empirical tests of the synthetic teammate operating with human teammates. This paper covers the project's modeling approach, challenges faced, progress made toward an integrated synthetic teammate, and lessons learned during development.
791	symbolic	2008	Gunzelmann, G	Strategy generalization across orientation tasks: Testing a computational cognitive model	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Humans use their spatial information processing abilities flexibly to facilitate problem solving and decision making in a variety of tasks. This article explores the question of whether a general strategy can be adapted for performing two different spatial orientation tasks by testing the predictions of a computational cognitive model. Human performance was measured on an orientation task requiring participants to identify the location of a target either on a map (find-on-map) or within an egocentric view of a space (find-in-scene). A general strategy instantiated in a computational cognitive model of the find-on-map task, based on the results from Gunzelmann and Anderson (2006), was adapted to perform both tasks and used to generate performance predictions for a new study. The qualitative fit of the model to the human data supports the view that participants were able to tailor a general strategy to the requirements of particular spatial tasks. The quantitative differences between the predictions of the model and the performance of human participants in the new experiment expose individual differences in sample populations. The model provides a means of accounting for those differences and a framework for understanding how human spatial abilities are applied to naturalistic spatial tasks that involve reasoning with maps.
792	symbolic	2007	Stewart, TC; West, RL	Deconstructing and reconstructing ACT-R: Exploring the architectural space	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Evaluating variations in the structure of computational models of cognition is as important as evaluating variations in the numerical parameters of such models. However, computational models tend not to be organized in such a way as to directly support such research. To address this need, we have taken the well-known cognitive architecture ACT-R, reduced it to its fundamental components, and reconstructed it. Our new system, Python ACT-R, facilitates exploration of the space of possible models and architectures based on the core ACT-R theory. The result has enabled us to examine the possibility of using basic ACT-R components such as the declarative memory system in new ways; for example, as the basis for a new visual attention system. Python ACT-R allows the same model de. nition syntax to be used to de. ne both ACT-R models and new ACT-R components, as well as making explicit the processes speci. fied by the ACT-R theory. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
793	symbolic	2007	Amant, RS; Horton, TE; Ritter, FE	Model-based evaluation of expert cell phone menu interaction	ACM TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTER-HUMAN INTERACTION	We describe concepts to support the analysis of cell phone menu hierarchies, based on cognitive models of users and easy-to-use optimization techniques. We present an empirical study of user performance on five simple tasks of menu traversal on an example cell phone. Two of the models applied to these tasks, based on GOMS and ACT-R, give good predictions of behavior. We use the empirically supported models to create an effective evaluation and improvement process for menu hierarchies. Our work makes three main contributions: a novel and timely study of a new, very common HCI task; new versions of existing models for accurately predicting performance; and a search procedure to generate menu hierarchies that reduce traversal time, in simulation studies, by about a third.
794	symbolic	2005	Gray, WD; Schoelles, MJ; Sims, CR	Adapting to the task environment: Explorations in expected value	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Small variations in how a task is designed can lead humans to trade off one set of strategies for another. In this paper we discuss our failure to model such tradeoffs in the Blocks World task using ACT-R's default mechanism for selecting the best production among competing productions. ACT-R's selection mechanism, its expected value equation, has had many successes (see, for example [Anderson, J. R., & Lebiere, C. (Eds.). (1998). Atomic components of thought. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.]) and a recognized strength of this approach is that, across a wide variety of tasks, it tends to produce models that adapt to their task environment about as fast as humans adapt. (This congruence with human behavior is in marked contrast to other popular ways of computing the utility of alternative choices; for example, Reinforcement Learning or most Connectionist learning methods.) We believe that the failure to model the Blocks World task stems from the requirement in ACT-R that all actions must be counted as a binary success or failure. In Blocks World, as well as in many other circumstances, actions can be met with mixed success or partial failure. Working within ACT-R's expected value equation we replace the binary success/failure judgment with three variations on a scalar one. We then compare the performance of each alternative with ACT-R's default scheme and with the human data. We conclude by discussing the limits and generality of our attempts to replace ACT-R's binary scheme with a scalar credit assignment mechanism. (c) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
795	symbolic	2005	Son, IY; Guhe, M; Gray, WD; Yazici, B; Schoelles, MJ	Human performance assessment using fNIR	Biomonitoring for Physiological and Cognitive Performance during Military Operations	We explore the utility of functional Near Infra Red (fNIR) technology in providing both empirical support and a basis for assessing and predicting dynamic changes in cognitive workload within the theoretical context of computational cognitive modeling (CCM). CCM has had many successes and in recent years has expanded from a tool for basic research to one that can tackle more complex real-world tasks. As a tool for basic research it seeks to provide a model of cognitive functionality; as a tool for cognitive engineering it seeks applications in monitoring and predicting real-time performance. With this powerful theoretical tool we combine the empirical power of fNIR technology. The fNIR technology is used to non-invasively monitor regional hemodynamic activities, namely blood volume changes and oxygenation dynamics. We examined a simple auditory classification task in four different workload conditions. We monitored the blood activity in the prefrontal cortex region of the frontal lobe during the performance of the task to assess the patterns of activity as workload changes. We associated patterns of model activity with patterns of the hemodynarnic data. We used ACT-R for creating the computational cognitive model. For the fNIR analysis, we used a generalized linear regression model along with time series clustering. We found that in the highest workload condition the model predicts a cognitive,overload', which correlated well with the fNIR cluster and classification analysis, as this condition differs significantly from the other three conditions. Linear regression on a subset of the data where workload increases monotonically shows that apart from the overload condition, there was a positive relationship between increase in workload and increase in blood volume activation. In addition, individual variations in hemodynamic response suggest that individuals differ in how they process different workload levels.
796	symbolic	1999	Lebiere, C; West, RL	A dynamic ACT-R model of simple games	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	A model of humans playing the simple game of Paper Rock Scissors based on the ACT-R architecture (Anderson, 1993; Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) is presented. This model stores in long-term memory sequences of moves and attempts to anticipate the opponent's moves by retrieving from memory the most active sequence. This results in a tightly linked dynamical system in which each player drives the play of its opponent. The performance of this model as a function of the length of the sequences stored and the amount of noise in the system is investigated, and is compared to the performance of human subjects.
797	symbolic	1997	Johnson, TR	Control in Act-R and Soar	PROCEEDINGS OF THE NINETEENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	This paper compares the Act-R and Soar cognitive architectures, focusing on their theories of control. Act-R treats control (conflict resolution) as an automatic process, whereas Soar treats it as a potentially deliberate, knowledge-based process. The comparison reveals that Soar can model extremely flexible control, but has difficulty accounting for probabilistic operator selection and the independent effects of history and distance to goal on the likelihood of selecting an operator. In contrast, Act-R's control is well supported by empirical data, but has difficulty modeling task-switching, multiple interleaved tasks, and dynamic abandoning of subgoals. The comparison also reveals that many of the justifications for each architecture's control structure, such as some forms of flexible control and satisficing, are just as easily handled by both.
798	symbolic	2014	Kupper-Tetzel, CE; Kapler, IV; Wiseheart, M	Contracting, equal, and expanding learning schedules: The optimal distribution of learning sessions depends on retention interval	MEMORY & COGNITION	In laboratory and applied learning experiments, researchers have extensively investigated the optimal distribution of two learning sessions (i.e., initial learning and one relearning session) for the learning of verbatim materials. However, research has not yet provided a satisfying and conclusive answer to the optimal scheduling of three learning sessions (i.e., initial learning and two relearning sessions) across educationally relevant time intervals. Should the to-be-learned material be repeated at decreasing intervals (contracting schedule), constant intervals (equal schedule), or increasing intervals (expanding schedule) between learning sessions? Different theories and memory models (e.g., study-phase retrieval theory, contextual variability theory, ACT-R, and the Multiscale Context Model) make distinct predictions about the optimal learning schedule. We discuss the extant theories and derive clear predictions from each of them. To test these predictions empirically, we conducted an experiment in which participants studied and restudied paired associates with a contracting, equal, or expanding learning schedule. Memory performance was assessed immediately, 1 day, 7 days, or 35 days later with free- and cued-recall tests. Our results revealed that the optimal learning schedule is conditional on the length of the retention interval: A contracting learning schedule was beneficial for retention intervals up to 7 days, but both equal and expanding learning schedules were better for a long retention interval of 35 days. Our findings can be accommodated best by the contextual variability theory and indicate that revisions are needed to existing memory models. Our results are practically relevant, and their implications for real-world learning are discussed.
799	symbolic	2013	van Rij, J; van Rijn, H; Hendriks, P	How WM Load Influences Linguistic Processing in Adults: A Computational Model of Pronoun Interpretation in Discourse	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper presents a study of the effect of working memory load on the interpretation of pronouns in different discourse contexts: stories with and without a topic shift. We discuss a computational model (in ACT-R, Anderson, 2007) to explain how referring expressions are acquired and used. On the basis of simulations of this model, it is predicted that WM constraints only affect adults' pronoun resolution in stories with a topic shift, but not in stories without a topic shift. This latter prediction was tested in an experiment. The results of this experiment confirm that WM load reduces adults' sensitivity to discourse cues signaling a topic shift, thus influencing their interpretation of subsequent pronouns.
800	symbolic	2009	Robbins, B; Carruth, D; Morais, A	Bridging the Gap between HCI and DHM: The Modeling of Spatial Awareness within a Cognitive Architecture	DIGITAL HUMAN MODELING, PROCEEDINGS	In Multiple investigations of human performance on natural tasks in three-dimensional (3D) environments, we have found that a sense of space is necessary for accurate modeling of human perception and motor planning. In previous work, we developed ACT-R/DHM, a modification of the ACT-R cognitive architecture with specific extensions for integration with 3D environments. ACT-R/DHM could leverage existing extensions from the ACTR community that implement the spatial sense, but current research seems to indicate that an "egocentric-first" approach is most appropriate. We describe the implementation of a custom spatial module in ACT-R/DHM, which allows for the consideration of spatial locations by adding a single ACT-R module that performs a very small set of operations on existing location information. We demonstrate the use of the 3D, egocentric-first spatial module to simulate a machine interaction task.
801	symbolic	2007	Kennedy, WG; Trafton, JG	Long-term symbolic learning	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	What are the characteristics of long-term learning? We investigated the characteristics of long-term, symbolic learning using the Soar and ACT-R cognitive architectures running cognitive models of two simple tasks. Long sequences of problems were run collecting data to answer fundamental questions about long-term, symbolic learning. We examined whether symbolic learning continues inde. finitely, how the learned knowledge is used, and whether computational performance degrades over the long term. We report three. findings. First, in both systems, symbolic learning eventually stopped. Second, learned knowledge was used diff. erently in different stages but the resulting production knowledge was used uniformly. Finally, both Soar and ACT-R do eventually suffer from degraded computational performance with long-term continuous learning. We also discuss ACT-R implementation and theoretic causes of ACT-R's computational performance problems and settings that appear to avoid the performance problems in ACT-R. Published by Elsevier B. V.
802	symbolic	2007	Tamborello, FP; Byrne, MD	Adaptive but non-optimal visual search behavior with highlighted displays	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Previous research [Fisher, D. L., & Tan, K. C. (1989). Visual displays: The highlighting paradox. Human Factors, 31(1), 17-30] suggested that making certain items visually salient, or highlighting, can speed performance in visual search tasks. But interface designers cannot always anticipate users' intended targets, and highlighting non-target items can lead to performance decrements. An experiment presented suggests that people attend to highlighting less than what an algebraic visual search model of highlighted displays [Fisher, D. L., Coury, B. G., Tengs, T. O., & Du. y, S. A. (1989). Minimizing the time to search visual displays: The role of highlighting. Human Factors, 31(2), 167-182] predicts. Users adjust their visual search strategies by probability-matching to their visual environment. An ACT-R [Anderson, J. R., Bothell, D., Byrne, M. D., Douglass, S., Lebiere, C., & Quin, Y. (2004). An integrated theory of the mind. Psychological Review, 111, 1036-1060] model reproduced the major e. ffects of the experiment and suggests that learning in this task occurs at very small cognitive and time scales. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
803	symbolic	2004	Brumby, DP; Howes, A	Good enough but I'll just check: Web-page search as attentional refocusing	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	When people search a set of Web labels for links that are relevant to their information goal, they attend to the labels and estimate the likelihood that the link will lead to the goal. Recent findings indicate that people sometimes, but not always, assess only a subset of the links available. We report an ACT-R model of Web-page search that was inspired by Young's (1998) rational account of exploratory choice, but which was also sensitive to the psychological constraints encoded in the ACT-R theory of the human cognitive architecture. The behavior of the model differs substantially from previous ACT-R models of Web navigation, at least for single-page search. We describe an experimental test of the models behavior and qualitative and quantitative fits of the model to the data.
804	symbolic	2004	Wu, CX; Liu, YL	Modeling psychological refractory period (PRP) and piractice effect on PRP with queuing networks and reinforcement learning algorithms	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	PRP (Psychological Refractory Period) is a basic but important form of human information processing in dual-task situations. This article describes a queuing network model of PRP that successfully modeled PRP without the need of setting up complex lock/unlock performance strategies employed in the EPIC model of PRP or drawing complex scheduling charts employed in the ACT-R/PM model of PRP. Further, by integrating queuing networks with reinforcement learning algorithms, the queuing network model successfully simulated practice effect on PRP, which has not been modeled in existing PRP models. The current research indicates that depending on an individual's degree of practice, cognition can be either serial or parallel at the level of production or response selection. Extensions of queuing network model in modeling other tasks and its easiness in modeling concurrent tasks in practice are also discussed.
805	symbolic	2015	Grange, JA; Juvina, I	The effect of practice on n-2 repetition costs in set switching	ACTA PSYCHOLOGICA	Inhibition in set switching is inferred from so-called n-2 repetition costs: slower response times to ABA sequences compared to CBA sequences (where A, B, and C are arbitrary labels for different tasks). These costs are thought to reflect the persisting inhibition of task A when it was disengaged recently (as is the case in an ABA sequence). In this study we were interested in whether more inhibition may be required when the tasks are relatively novel. To this end, we examined the effect of practice on the n-2 repetition cost in nine participants across five experimental sessions, with 1222 trials performed in each session. The results show a clear reduction in the n-2 repetition cost, being altogether absent from the final sessions. Such a reduction is predicted by both: (a) a recent computational model of the n-2 repetition cost (Grange, Juvina, & Houghton, 2013) due to the gradual strengthening of task-related memory elements with practice to the point where inhibition has less impact; and (b) prior work showing smaller n-2 repetition costs with greater cue-target association strength (Houghton, Pritchard, & Grange, 2009). In this paper, we integrate these two theoretical derivations by extending our computational model, which fit the current data at the mean level, block level, and individual-subject (i.e., individual differences) level well. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
806	symbolic	2013	Dancy, CL	ACT-R Phi: A cognitive architecture with physiology and affect	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	Current computational cognitive architectures lack a comprehensive representation of human physiology. Connecting a more realistic model of physiology to a cognitive architecture allows one to develop more realistic computational process models that include an account for the effect of physiology on cognition. It is also useful to include some theory of affect and emotion to act as a functional layer between some representations of physiology and cognition. We chose to extend the ACT-R (adaptive control of thought - rational) cognitive architecture with physiology and affect to make the ACT-R Phi hybrid architecture. We connected the Hum Mod physiological simulation system with the ACT-R architecture; ACT-R Phi has a module that communicates between ACT-R and Hum Mod. A new affect system was also developed using an existing theoretical framework to serve as a functional layer between some of the physiological and cognitive representations. With this new architecture one can model a wide range of human behavior (e.g., the effects of homeostasis on cognition) in a more tractable fashion. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
807	symbolic	2013	Banks, AP	The Influence of Activation Level on Belief Bias in Relational Reasoning	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A novel explanation of belief bias in relational reasoning is presented based on the role of working memory and retrieval in deductive reasoning, and the influence of prior knowledge on this process. It is proposed that belief bias is caused by the believability of a conclusion in working memory which influences its activation level, determining its likelihood of retrieval and therefore its effect on the reasoning process. This theory explores two main influences of belief on the activation levels of these conclusions. First, believable conclusions have higher activation levels and so are more likely to be recalled during the evaluation of reasoning problems than unbelievable conclusions, and therefore, they have a greater influence on the reasoning process. Secondly, prior beliefs about the conclusion have a base level of activation and may be retrieved when logically irrelevant, influencing the evaluation of the problem. The theory of activation and memory is derived from the Atomic Components of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) cognitive architecture and so this account is formalized in an ACT-R cognitive model. Two experiments were conducted to test predictions of this model. Experiment 1 tested strength of belief and Experiment 2 tested the impact of a concurrent working memory load. Both of these manipulations increased the main effect of belief overall and in particular raised belief-based responding in indeterminately invalid problems. These effects support the idea that the activation level of conclusions formed during reasoning influences belief bias. This theory adds to current explanations of belief bias by providing a detailed specification of the role of working memory and how it is influenced by prior knowledge.
808	symbolic	2012	Guhe, M	Utility-Based Generation of Referring Expressions	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This paper presents two cognitive models that simulate the production of referring expressions in the iMAP taska task-oriented dialog. One general model is based on Dale and Reiters (1995)incremental algorithm, and the other is a simple template model that has a higher correlation with the data but is specifically geared toward the properties of the iMAP task. The property of the iMAP task environment that is modeled here is that the color feature is unreliable for identifying referents while other features are reliable. The low computational cost of the incremental algorithm for generating referring expressions makes it an interesting starting point for a cognitive model. However, its explanatory power is limited, because it generates uniquely distinguishing referring expressions and because it considers features for inclusion in the referring expression in a fixed order. The first model extends the original incremental algorithm by an ability to adapt to feedback of whether a referring expression was used successfully, but it seems to overpredict the frequency with which distinguishing expressions are made and underpredict the frequency of overspecified referring expressions. The second model produces features for referring expressions purely based on its current estimate of a features utility. Both models predict the observed human behavior of decreasing use of color terms and increasing use of useful feature terms.
809	symbolic	2004	Taatgen, N; van Rijn, H; Anderson, J	Time perception: Beyond simple interval estimation	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	Reasoning about and with time has never been studied extensively in the context of cognitive architectures. We present a temporal reasoning system that can make accurate predictions for two classic interval estimation experiments by Rakitin et al. (1998) and Penney et al. (2000). The system is implemented as an additional module for ACT-R. In combination with ACT-R's other mechanisms, it makes accurate predictions about experiments that go beyond just estimating time. We demonstrate this by modeling data from a choice-reaction task by GrosJean et al. (2001).
810	symbolic	2016	Patil, U; Hanne, S; Burchert, F; De Bleser, R; Vasishth, S	A Computational Evaluation of Sentence Processing Deficits in Aphasia	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Individuals with agrammatic Broca's aphasia experience difficulty when processing reversible non-canonical sentences. Different accounts have been proposed to explain this phenomenon. The Trace Deletion account (Grodzinsky, 1995, 2000, 2006) attributes this deficit to an impairment in syntactic representations, whereas others (e.g., Caplan, Waters, Dede, Michaud, & Reddy, 2007; Haarmann, Just, & Carpenter, 1997) propose that the underlying structural representations are unimpaired, but sentence comprehension is affected by processing deficits, such as slow lexical activation, reduction in memory resources, slowed processing and/or intermittent deficiency, among others. We test the claims of two processing accounts, slowed processing and intermittent deficiency, and two versions of the Trace Deletion Hypothesis (TDH), in a computational framework for sentence processing (Lewis & Vasishth, 2005) implemented in ACT-R (Anderson, Byrne, Douglass, Lebiere, & Qin, 2004). The assumption of slowed processing is operationalized as slow procedural memory, so that each processing action is performed slower than normal, and intermittent deficiency as extra noise in the procedural memory, so that the parsing steps are more noisy than normal. We operationalize the TDH as an absence of trace information in the parse tree. To test the predictions of the models implementing these theories, we use the data from a German sentencepicture matching study reported in Hanne, Sekerina, Vasishth, Burchert, and De Bleser (2011). The data consist of offline (sentence-picture matching accuracies and response times) and online (eye fixation proportions) measures. From among the models considered, the model assuming that both slowed processing and intermittent deficiency are present emerges as the best model of sentence processing difficulty in aphasia. The modeling of individual differences suggests that, if we assume that patients have both slowed processing and intermittent deficiency, they have them in differing degrees.
811	symbolic	2015	Tucker, MA; Idrissi, A; Almeida, D	Representing number in the real-time processing of agreement: self-paced reading evidence from Arabic	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	In the processing of subject-verb agreement, non-subject plural nouns following a singular subject sometimes "attract" the agreement with the verb, despite not being grammatically licensed to do so. This phenomenon generates agreement errors in production and an increased tendency to fail to notice such errors in comprehension, thereby providing a window into the representation of grammatical number in working memory during sentence processing. Research in this topic, however, is primarily done in related languages with similar agreement systems. In order to increase the cross-linguistic coverage of the processing of agreement, we conducted a self-paced reading study in Modern Standard Arabic. We report robust agreement attraction errors in relative clauses, a configuration not particularly conducive to the generation of such errors for all possible lexicalizations. In particular, we examined the speed with which readers retrieve a subject controller for both grammatical and ungrammatical agreeing verbs in sentences where verbs are preceded by two NPs, one of which is a local non-subject NP that can act as a distractor for the successful resolution of subject-verb agreement. Our results suggest that the frequency of errors is modulated by the kind of plural formation strategy used on the attractor noun: nouns which form plurals by suffixation condition high rates of attraction, whereas nouns which form their plurals by internal vowel change (ablaut) generate lower rates of errors and reading-time attraction effects of smaller magnitudes. Furthermore, we show some evidence that these agreement attraction effects are mostly contained in the right tail of reaction time distributions. We also present modeling data in the ACT-R framework which supports a view of these ablauting patterns wherein they are differentially specified for number and evaluate the consequences of possible representations for theories of grammar and parsing.
812	symbolic	2015	Zhong, XQ; Fu, HG; Xia, HD; Yang, LN; Shang, MS	A hybrid cognitive assessment based on ontology knowledge map and skills	KNOWLEDGE-BASED SYSTEMS	An intelligent tutoring system plays vital role in education and its importance is constantly increasing, meanwhile the key challenge in the teaching learning process is assessing students' learning efficiently. In this paper, a hybrid assessment based-on ACT-R cognitive learning theory, combining ontology knowledge map with skills is proposed. In order to assess how well students master knowledge structure, an ontology knowledge map is constructed to describe declarative knowledge; and in order to assess how well students master knowledge skills, a problem solving process is constructed to describe procedural knowledge based on ACT-R. Finally, a student's mastery of knowledge is assessed through both the knowledge map and skills in the problem solving process, as well as auxiliary indicators like time usage, prior knowledge level, self-assessment, etc. This method is implemented in a geometric intelligent assessment system and is evaluated in a junior high school. Experiments show that the assessment results are consistent with students' actual learning levels. The hybrid cognitive assessment method can not only obtain the score of students' mastery of knowledge points and the structure through knowledge map, but also assess the learning skills in problem solving process through exercises quantitatively. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
813	symbolic	2013	Moon, J; Anderson, JR	Timing in multitasking: Memory contamination and time pressure bias	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	here can be systematic biases in time estimation when it is performed in complex multitasking situations. In this paper we focus on the mechanisms that cause participants to tend to respond too quickly and underestimate a target interval (250-400 ms) in a complex, real-time task. We hypothesized that two factors are responsible for the too-early bias: (1) Memory contamination from an even shorter time interval in the task, and (2) time pressure to take appropriate actions in time. In a simpler experiment that was focused on just these two factors, we found a strong too-early bias when participants estimated the target interval in alternation with a shorter interval and when they had little time to perform the task. The too-early bias was absent when they estimated the target interval in isolation without contamination and time pressure. A strong too-late bias occurred when the target interval alternated with a longer interval and there was no time pressure to respond. The effects were captured by incorporating the timing model of Taatgen and van Rijn (2011) into the ACT-R model for the Space Fortress task (Bothell, 2010). The results show that to properly understand time estimation in a dynamic task one needs to model the multiple influences that are occurring from the surrounding context. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
814	symbolic	2011	Fu, WT	A Dynamic Context Model of Interactive Behavior	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	A dynamic context model of interactive behavior was developed to explain results from two experiments that tested the effects of interaction costs on encoding strategies, cognitive representations, and response selection processes in a decision-making and a judgment task. The model assumes that the dynamic context defined by the mixes of internal and external representations and processes are sensitive to the interaction cost imposed by the task environment. The model predicts that changes in the dynamic context may lead to systematic biases in cognitive representations and processes that eventually influence decision-making and judgment outcomes. Consistent with the predictions by the model, results from the experiments showed that as interaction costs increased, encoding strategies and cognitive representations shifted from perception-based to memory-based. Memory-based comparisons of the stimuli enhanced the similarity and dominance effects, and led to stronger systematic biases in response outcomes in a choice task. However, in a judgment task, memory-based representations enhanced only the dominance effects. Results suggested that systematic response biases in the dominance context were caused by biases in the cognitive representations of the stimuli, but response biases in the similarity context were caused by biases in the comparison process induced by the choice task. Results suggest that changes in interaction costs not only change whether information was assessed from the external world or from memory but also introduce systematic biases in the cognitive representation of the information, which act as biased inputs to the subsequent decision-making and judgment processes. Results are consistent with the idea of interactive cognition, which proposes that representations and processes are contingent on the dynamic context defined by the information flow between the external task environment and internal cognition.
815	symbolic	2011	Reitter, D; Lebiere, C	How groups develop a specialized domain vocabulary: A cognitive multi-agent model	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	We simulate the evolution of a domain vocabulary in small communities. Empirical data show that human communicators can evolve graphical languages quickly in a constrained task (Pictionary), and that communities converge towards a common language. We propose that simulations of such cultural evolution incorporate properties of human memory (cue-based retrieval, learning, decay). A cognitive model is described that encodes abstract concepts with small sets of concrete, related concepts (directing), and that also decodes such signs (matching). Learning captures conventionalized signs. Relatedness of concepts is characterized by a mixture of shared and individual knowledge, which we sample from a text corpus. Simulations show vocabulary convergence of agent communities of varied structure, but idiosyncrasy in vocabularies of each dyad of models. Convergence is weakened when agents do not alternate between encoding and decoding, predicting the necessity of bi-directional communication. Convergence is improved by explicit feedback about communicative success. We hypothesize that humans seek out subtle clues to gauge success in order to guide their vocabulary acquisition. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
816	symbolic	2007	Qin, YL; Bothell, D; Anderson, JR	ACT-R meets fMRI	WEB INTELLIGENCE MEETS BRAIN INFORMATICS	ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought - Rational) is a theory and computational model of human cognitive architecture. It consists of a set of modules with their own buffers, each devoted to processing a different kind of information. A production rule in the core production system can be fired based on the chunks in these buffers and then it changes the chunks in the buffer of the related modules or the state of the related modules, which may leads to fire a new production rule and so on to generate the cognitive behavior. It has successfully predicted and explained a broad range of cognitive psychological phenomena and found applications in the human-computer interface and other areas (see http://act-r.psy.emu.edu) and may have potential applications in Web intelligence. In recent years, a series of fMRI experiments have been performed to explore the neural basis of cognitive architecture and to build a two-way bridge between the information processing model and fMRI. The patterns of the activations of brain areas corresponding to the buffers of the major modules in ACT-R were highly consistent across these experiments; and ACT-R has successfully predicted the Blood Oxygenation Level-Depend (BOLD) effect in these regions. The approach of ACT-R meets fMRI may shed light on the research of Web Intelligence (WI) meets Brain Informatics (BI).
817	symbolic	2004	Fum, D; Stocco, A	Memory, emotion, and rationality: An ACT-R interpretation for gambling task results	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	A new interpretation for the results of several experiments carried out using the Gambling Task paradigm is presented that differs from that put forward by Damasio (1994). While Damasio grounds his analysis on the somatic markers hypothesis, we propose a perspective based on the functional integration of emotion with memory that is sympathetic with the view of the prefrontal cortex endorsed by Rolls (1999, 2000). Our interpretation is supported by the development of a computational model implemented in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. The model highlights some limitations of the architecture that arise when dealing with situations charged with emotional significance. In particular, the model-when developed according to the standard ACT-R theory-produces a perseverating behavior that replicates the performance exhibited by participants with lesions in the orbitofrontal cortex. An adjustment to the ACT-R equations describing the activation of elements in declarative memory is suggested that allows modeling the performance of both normal controls and orbitofrontal patients.
818	symbolic	2004	Nason, S; Laird, JE	Soar-RL: Integrating reinforcement learning with soar	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	In this paper, we describe an architectural modification to Soar that gives a Soar agent the opportunity to learn statistical information about the past success of its actions and utilize this information when selecting an operator. This mechanism serves the same purpose as production utilities in ACT-R, but the implementation is more directly tied to the standard definition of the reinforcement learning (RL) problem. The paper explains our implementation, gives a rationale for adding an RL capability to Soar, and shows results for Soar-RL agents' performance on two tasks.
819	symbolic	2004	Rehling, J; Lovett, M; Lebiere, C; Reder, L; Demiral, B	Modeling Complex Tasks: An Individual Difference Approach	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	It is the usual case in cognitive modeling that a model's output is compared to the average of a number of subjects, in which case the enterprise of modeling is apparently to capture the behavior of the typical individual. Our approach is to administer two simple tasks to each subject, using performance on those tasks as measures of individual ability. Those measures are then used as the values for parameters in an ACT-R model of a more complex task, so that the model can predict individual performance on that task.
820	symbolic	2003	Lebiere, C; Gray, R; Salvucci, D; West, R	Choice and learning under uncertainty: A case study in baseball batting	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY, PTS 1 AND 2	This paper describes the modeling of human performance in a real-world, embodied, stochastic task: baseball batting. Experimental results were gathered in a virtual reality setup and a Markov model of performance, especially errors, was developed. The focus of this paper is on a model of the task developed in the ACT-R cognitive architecture, most specifically of the critical subtask of generating an expectation for the next pitch. The model required no parameter tuning and provides an a priori account of the results based on the architectural constraints of declarative memory. The Markov and ACT-R models are briefly compared. The broader relevance of the task is discussed and possible applications are suggested.
821	symbolic	2016	Nijboer, M; Borst, J; van Rijn, H; Taatgen, N	Contrasting single and multi-component working-memory systems in dual tasking	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	Working memory can be a major source of interference in dual tasking. However, there is no consensus on whether this interference is the result of a single working memory bottleneck, or of interactions between different working memory components that together form a complete working-memory system. We report a behavioral and an fMRI dataset in which working memory requirements are manipulated during multitasking. We show that a computational cognitive model that assumes a distributed version of working memory accounts for both behavioral and neuroimaging data better than a model that takes a more centralized approach. The model's working memory consists of an attentional focus, declarative memory, and a subvocalized rehearsal mechanism. Thus, the data and model favor an account where working memory interference in dual tasking is the result of interactions between different resources that together form a working memory system. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
822	symbolic	2014	Rutledge-Taylor, MF; Kelly, MA; West, RL; Pyke, AA	Dynamically structured holographic memory	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	We describe the DSHM (Dynamically Structured Holographic Memory) model of human memory, which uses high dimensional vectors to represent items in memory. The complexity and intelligence of human behavior can be attributed, in part, to our ability to utilize vast knowledge acquired over a lifetime of experience with our environment. Thus models of memory, particularly models that can scale up to lifetime learning, are critical to modeling human intelligence. DHSM is based on the BEAGLE model of language acquisition (Jones Et Mewhort, 2007) and extends this type of model to general memory phenomena. We demonstrate that DHSM can model a wide variety of human memory effects. Specifically, we model the fan effect, the problem size effect (from math cognition), dynamic game playing (detecting sequential dependencies from memories of past moves), and time delay learning (using an instance based approach). This work suggests that DSHM is suitable as a basis for learning both over the shortterm and over the lifetime of the agent, and as a basis for both procedural and declarative memory. We argue that cognition needs to be understood at both the symbolic and sub-symbolic levels, and demonstrate that DSHM intrinsically operates at both of these levels of description. In order to situate DSHM in a familiar context, we discuss the relationship between DHSM and ACT-R. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
823	symbolic	2014	Koong, CS; Yang, TI; Wu, CC; Li, HT; Tseng, CC	An investigation into effectiveness of different reflective learning strategies for learning operational software	COMPUTERS & EDUCATION	Skill certification promotion is one of the main policies facilitated by the technological and vocational education, where application software instruction is regarded as the core curriculum to foster skill certification. With its close connection with problem-solving learning, application software instruction relies heavily on hands-on operation incorporating information technology to adequately unravel the challenges where living or working application is simulated as problem situations. According to Dewey (1963) and Edwards (1996), the process of reflection is characterized by the inference course where learners attempt to analyze and solve the problems. However, more evidence is needed to decide what reflective learning strategies are effective for students' learning. Application software operation is categorized as procedural knowledge. Repeated drills are requisite to reach the ultimate goal of spontaneous reaction without thinking. Features of CAL system offer a well-rounded environment to meet the demands. The purposes of this study were 1) to investigate how different reflective learning strategies can affect learning effectiveness of operational application software acquisition, 2) to identify effective learning strategies and to incorporate the CAL approach with instructional practices to foster learning performance. Aiming at characteristics of operational software, this study proposed operational software learning strategy theory model based on reflective learning and Adaptive Character of Thought-Rational (ACT-R) model theories. The proposed model modified the reflective learning theory and added cyclical loop into CAL to fit for operational software instruction. The CAL system is developed and incorporated into learning activities of reflective learning theory strategy model by collecting frequent operation errors made in the first-year experiment as the source drill items. This study is conducted in a two-year sequence. A total of 172 second-grade students was recruited from a vocational high school. Different reflective learning strategies, individual and group reflective learning strategy, are implemented on two experimental groups in the first year. CAL strategy is later added into the experimental groups in the second year. The results suggest that group reflective learning strategy can enhance learning effectiveness of the holistic and medium-score group students. When reflective learning strategy is incorporated with CAL, in addition to maintaining the first-year learning effectiveness, learning effectiveness of the holistic and low-score group students can be benefited by individual reflective learning strategy. Furthermore, reflective learning incorporating with CAL has greater learning effectiveness than the learning without CAL. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
824	symbolic	2012	Kurup, U; Lebiere, C	What can cognitive architectures do for robotics?	BIOLOGICALLY INSPIRED COGNITIVE ARCHITECTURES	Research in robotic systems has traditionally been identified with approaches that are characterized by the use of carefully crafted representations and processes to find optimal solutions. The use of such representations and processes, which we refer to as the algorithmic approach, is uniquely suited for problems requiring strong models, i.e., tasks and domains that are well defined, and/or involve close interaction with the environment. These problems have historically been the focus of robotics research because they exercise perceptual, motor and manipulation capabilities that form the basic foundational abilities required for every robotic agent. Recent work (for example ROS and Tekkotsu) on the abstraction and encapsulation of perception and motor functionality has standardized the above mentioned foundational abilities and allowed researchers to study problems in less clearly defined and open-ended domains: problems that have previously been considered the province of Al and Cognitive Science. In this paper, we argue that the study of these problems (examples of which include multi-agent interaction, instruction following and reasoning in complex domains) referred to under the rubric of Cognitive Robotics is best achieved via the use of cognitive architectures - unified computational frameworks developed specifically for general problem solving and human cognitive modeling. We lay out the relevant architectural concepts and principles and illustrate them using nine cognitive architectures that are under active development - Soar, ACT-R, CLARION, GMU-BICA, Polyscheme, Co-JACK, ADAPT, ACT-R/E, and SS-RICS. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
825	symbolic	2012	Hayworth, KJ	Dynamically partitionable autoassociative networks as a solution to the neural binding problem	FRONTIERS IN COMPUTATIONAL NEUROSCIENCE	An outstanding question in theoretical neuroscience is how the brain solves the neural binding problem. In vision, binding can be summarized as the ability to represent that certain properties belong to one object while other properties belong to a different object. I review the binding problem in visual and other domains, and review its simplest pro-posed solution the anatomical binding hypothesis. This hypothesis has traditionally been rejected as a true solution because it seems to require a type of one-to-one wiring of neurons that would be impossible in a biological system (as opposed to an engineered system like a computer). I show that this requirement for one-to-one wiring can be loosened by carefully considering how the neural representation is actually put to use by the rest of the brain. This leads to a solution where a symbol is represented not as a particular pattern of neural activation but instead as a piece of a global stable attractor state. I introduce the Dynamically Partitionable AutoAssociative Network (DPAAN) as an implementation of this solution and show how DPANNs can be used in systems which perform perceptual binding and in systems that implement syntax-sensitive rules. Finally I show how the core parts of the cognitive architecture ACT-R can be neurally implemented using a DPAAN as ACT-R's global workspace. Because the DPAAN solution to the binding problem requires only "flat" neural representations (as opposed to the phase encoded representation hypothesized in neural synchrony solutions) it is directly compatible with the most well developed neural models of learning, memory, and pattern recognition.
826	symbolic	2012	Dutt, V; Gonzalez, C	Making Instance-based Learning Theory usable and understandable: The Instance-based Learning Tool	COMPUTERS IN HUMAN BEHAVIOR	This paper focuses on the creation and presentation of a user-friendly experience for developing computational models of human behavior. Although computational models of human behavior have enjoyed a rich history in cognitive psychology, they have lacked widespread impact, partly due to the technical knowledge and programming required in addition to the complexities of the modeling process. We describe a modeling tool called IBLTool that is a computational implementation of the Instance-based Learning Theory (IBLT). IBLT is a theory that represents how decisions are made from experience in dynamic tasks. The IBLTool makes IBLT usable and understandable to a wider community of cognitive and behavioral scientists. The tool uses graphical user interfaces that take a modeler step-by-step through several IBLT processes and help the modeler derive predictions of human behavior in a particular task. A task would connect and interact with the IBLTool and store the decision-making data while the tool collects statistical data from the execution of a model for the task. We explain the functioning of the IBLTool and demonstrate a concrete example of the design and execution of a model for the Iowa Gambling task. The example is intended to provide a concrete demonstration of the capabilities of the IBLTool. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
827	symbolic	2011	Gunzelmann, G; Lyon, DR	Representations and Processes of Human Spatial Competence	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	This article presents an approach to understanding human spatial competence that focuses on the representations and processes of spatial cognition and how they are integrated with cognition more generally. The foundational theoretical argument for this research is that spatial information processing is central to cognition more generally, in the sense that it is brought to bear ubiquitously to improve the adaptivity and effectiveness of perception, cognitive processing, and motor action. We describe research spanning multiple levels of complexity to understand both the detailed mechanisms of spatial cognition, and how they are utilized in complex, naturalistic tasks. In the process, we discuss the critical role of cognitive architectures in developing a consistent account that spans this breadth, and we note some areas in which the current version of a popular architecture, ACT-R, may need to be augmented. Finally, we suggest a framework for understanding the representations and processes of spatial competence and their role in human cognition generally.
828	symbolic	2011	Cassenti, DN; Kerick, SE; McDowell, K	Observing and modeling cognitive events through event-related potentials and ACT-R	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The study of cognition is generally thought to rely on techniques for inferring cognitive processes that are unobservable. One approach to cognitive science is to leverage an understanding of structure and function of the nervous system based on observable neurological events to determine mental processing. Event-related potential (ERP) research offers one technique to objectively measure cortical responses that are believed to be associated with perceptual and cognitive processes. Here, two ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought - Rational) models of mental processing are adapted based on the results of two ERP experiments. The models provide both a sequence of mental steps required to complete each task and a greater specificity of time course of mental events than traditional ACTR models. We conclude with implications of this research for cognitive theory and ACT-R as well as future work to be conducted. Published by Elsevier B.V.
829	symbolic	2009	Liu, YF; Wang, YM; Li, WS; Xu, WQ; Gui, JS	Improve Driver Performance by Experience of Driver Cognitive Behavior Model's Practice	2009 IEEE INTELLIGENT VEHICLES SYMPOSIUM, VOLS 1 AND 2	This paper describes a practicing method for enhancing driver performance, which it bases on cognitive driver behavior model of ACT-R--a dominant theory of human cognitive architecture. First, the paper elaborates the idea of driver behavior modeling in cognitive architecture. And then, it dedicates the implementation of driver's practice courses based on the cognitive architecture model. Finally, by comparing the experiments back and forth of the practice, the results indicate that the practice based on driver cognitive behavior model can improve the driver performances positively. The experiences of the practice also implied that both practice method is indeed an approach worthy of pursuit for enhancing driver performance at driving emergencies and driver behavior modeling in cognitive architecture is a substantial tool for practical applications in predicting and instructing driver behaviors.
830	symbolic	2008	Weaver, R	Parameters, Predictions, and Evidence in Computational Modeling: A Statistical View Informed by ACT-R	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Model validation in computational cognitive psychology often relies on methods drawn from the testing of theories in experimental physics. However, applications of these methods to computational models in typical cognitive experiments can hide multiple, plausible sources of variation arising from human participants and from stochastic cognitive theories, encouraging a model fixed, data variable paradigm that makes it difficult to interpret model predictions and to account for individual differences. This article proposes a likelihood-based, data fixed, model variable paradigm in which models are treated as stochastic processes in experiments with participant-to-participant variation that can be applied to a broad range of mechanistic cognitive architectures. This article discusses the implementation and implications of this view in model validation, with a concrete focus on a simple class of ACT-R models of cognition. This article is not intended as a recipe for broad application of these preliminary, proof-of-concept methods, but as a framework for communication between statisticians searching for interesting problems in the cognitive modeling sphere, and cognitive modelers interested in generalizing from deterministic to stochastic model validation, in the face of random variation in human experimental data.
831	symbolic	2007	Chuderski, A; Stettner, Z; Orzechowski, J	Computational modeling of individual differences in short term memory search	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Modeling of individual or group diff. erences, believed to be a powerful test for computational models, is still rare in current cognitive science. In this paper, we discuss alternative approaches to the computational modeling of both qualitative and quantitative differences among individuals as well as groups of individuals. Then, an example is presented of how accounting for individual differences in short term memory (STM) search can bring us insight into cognitive processes underlying this phenomenon, insight that otherways would be impossible. The two-phase computational model of memory search implements the idea of working memory (WM) focus of attention (FA): due to updating process a few items may be actively kept and easily accessed in ACT-R goal buffer. FA is being scanned serially first, and if the scan result is negative, a parallel chunk retrieval from active part of declarative memory outside the FA may run with certain probability. The model aptly simulates steep decrease in accuracy as well as steep increase in latency for responses to five most recent stimuli. The model also predicts the observed e. ffect of faster negative responses than positive responses to less recent stimuli. Most important, with manipulation to only one of its parameters (i. e., the capacity of FA) our model is able to predict 94% of variance for two groups of participants that differed in latency patterns (i. e., 'serial-like' vs. 'parallel-like' groups) of the search process. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
832	symbolic	2006	Cooper, RP	Cognitive architectures as Lakatosian research programs: Two case studies	PHILOSOPHICAL PSYCHOLOGY	Cognitive architectures-task-general theories of the structure and function of the complete cognitive system-are sometimes argued to be more akin to frameworks or belief systems than scientific theories. The argument stems from the apparent non-falsifiability of existing cognitive architectures. Newell was aware of this criticism and argued that architectures should be viewed not as theories subject to Popperian falsification, but rather as Lakatosian research programs based on cumulative growth. Newell's argument is undermined because he failed to demonstrate that the development of Soar, his own candidate architecture, adhered to Lakatosian principles. This paper presents detailed case studies of the development of two cognitive architectures, Soar and ACT-R, from a Lakatosian perspective. It is demonstrated that both are broadly Lakatosian, but that in both cases there have been theoretical progressions that, according to Lakatosian criteria, are pseudo-scientific. Thus, Newell's defense of Soar as a scientific rather than pseudo-scientific theory is not supported in practice. The ACT series of architectures has fewer pseudo-scientific progressions than Soar, but it too is vulnerable to accusations of pseudo-science. From this analysis, it is argued that successive versions of theories of the human cognitive architecture must explicitly address five questions to maintain scientific credibility.
833	symbolic	2004	John, BE; Salvucci, DD; Centgraf, P; Prevas, K	Integrating models and tools in the context of driving and in-vehicle devices	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	The integration of cognitive models offers interesting theoretical and practical benefits to the development of complex models, but at the same time brings up new challenges that the modeling community is only beginning to address. In this paper we present our experiences integrating models and tools for modeling,. Specifically, on the modeling end, we integrated an ACT-R model of driving with an independently-built model of cell phone dialing. To do this, we integrated the driving tool (a minimal-graphics driving simulator that can be controlled by ACT-R) with a modeling-by-demonstration tool, CogTool, that also used ACT-R as its cognitive engine. We found that both the models and tools required re-working because of the integration. The models required new motor movements and methods for switching between tasks. The tools required new specification techniques for placing prototyped devices in the vehicle and demonstration techniques for indicating points of task-switching. Our experiences indicate that while the integration of cognitive models is indeed an approach worthy of pursuit, the field may not understand all the ramifications of such integration until many more integrated models and tools are developed.
834	symbolic	2004	Salvucci, DD; Chavez, AK; Lee, FJ	Modeling Effects of Age in Complex Tasks: A Case Study in Driving	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	While computational cognitive modeling has made great strides in addressing complex dynamic tasks, the modeling of individual differences in complex tasks remains a largely unexplored area of research. In this paper we present a straightforward approach to modeling individual differences, specifically age-related cognitive differences, in complex tasks, and illustrate the application of this approach in the domain of driving. We borrow ideas from rigorous work in the EPIC cognitive architecture (Meyer et al., 2001) and extend them to the ACT-R architecture (Anderson et al., in press) and a recently-developed ACT-R driver model (Salvucci, Boer, & Liu, 2001) to model the effects of age on driver behavior. We describe two validation studies that demonstrate how this approach accounts for two important age-related effects on driver performance, namely effects on lateral stability and brake response during both normal driving and driving while performing a secondary task.
835	symbolic	2003	Juarez-Espinosa, O	CAEVA: Cognitive architecture to evaluate visualization applications	SEVENTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INFORMATION VISUALIZATION, PROCEEDINGS	This paper describes a cognitive architecture to evaluate visualization applications (CAEVA). This architecture requires gathering domain knowledge to adapt existing evaluation models to new domains and applications. This architecture has two main components: one for interoperability and one for cognitive models. The interoperability component uses client-server protocols. The cognitive component includes three subcomponents: knowledge about visualization, knowledge about the data domain, and knowledge about data analysis strategies. CAEVA was used to evaluate the visualizations generated to compare environmental products. The cognitive model is written in ACT-R and simulates how human beings use visualizations to perform data analysis tasks. The data produced by the simulation model is validated with empirical data obtained from human subjects performing the same task. The simulation model produces traces that allow researchers to analyze the strategies followed by the users in the task. The data produced by the model allowed us to study the teaming process of visualization users.
836	symbolic	2003	Lepine, R; Roussel, JL; Fayol, M	Procedural resolution or direct retrieval in memory of simple addition and multiplication in children?	ANNEE PSYCHOLOGIQUE	The present experiment aimed at studying the resolution of simple additions and multiplications in fifth-graders. The operations were those including two digits (2 to 9), except ties. The task was operation verification. The results showed that the operands' size effect and the priming effect of the sign were greater for addition than for multiplication. The results suggested that multiplication is solved by a direct retrieval of the answer from memory, whereas addition is solved by, an algorithmic strategy. These results replicate those found by Roussel, Fayol and Barrouillet (2001) in adults, and are discussed in the scope of the ACT-R model (Anderson, 1993). Finally, this study suggested that, except for an increase of speed, the nature of the strategies used to solve simple additions and multiplications does not change with development.
837	symbolic	2000	Petrov, AA; Anderson, JR	ANCHOR: A memory-based model of category rating	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SECOND ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	This paper attempts to draw a bridge between psychophysics and memory research by proposing a memory-based model of category rating. The model is based on the cognitive architecture ACT-R and uses anchors stored in memory that serve as prototypes for the stimuli classified within a response category. The anchors are retrieved by a partial matching mechanism and updated dynamically by an incremental learning mechanism. Anchors also have baselevel activations that reflect the frequency and recency of the responses. These mechanisms give rise to sequential effects and nonuniform response distributions. A psychological experiment involving category rating of physical length is reported and the predictions of the model are compared against the empirical data. The psychophysical implications of the model are discussed.
838	symbolic	1999	Jongman, L; Taatgen, N	An ACT-R model of individual differences in changes in adaptivity due to mental fatigue	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	In this paper we show that adaptivity is reduced when people become fatigued. Fatigued people adapt worse to changing probability distributions as compared to non-fatigued individuals. In an ACT-R model of the task we show that this decreased adaptivity is due to a decrease in the use of one specific strategy. We argue that the use of this strategy is decreased, because it places high demands on working memory. In previous research we also found indications that mental fatigue is related to changes in working memory functioning. We argue that modeling individual differences in performance will provide better insight in the processes involved in mental fatigue.
839	symbolic	1998	Anderson, JR; Lebiere, C; Lovett, M; Reder, L	ACT-R: A higher-level account of processing capacity	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	We present an account of processing capacity in the ACT-R theory. At the symbolic level, the number of chunks in the current goal provides a measure of relational complexity. At the subsymbolic level, limits on spreading activation, measured by the attentional parameter W, provide a theory of processing capacity, which has been applied to performance, learning, and individual differences data.
840	symbolic	2016	Anderson, JR; Zhang, Q; Borst, JP; Walsh, MM	The Discovery of Processing Stages: Extension of Sternberg's Method	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	We introduce a method for measuring the number and durations of processing stages from the electroencephalographic signal and apply it to the study of associative recognition. Using an extension of past research that combines multivariate pattern analysis with hidden semi-Markov models, the approach identifies on a trial-by-trial basis where brief sinusoidal peaks (called bumps) are added to the ongoing electroencephalographic signal. We propose that these bumps mark the onset of critical cognitive stages in processing. The results of the analysis can be used to guide the development of detailed process models. Applied to the associative recognition task, the hidden semi-Markov models multivariate pattern analysis method indicates that the effects of associative strength and probe type are localized to a memory retrieval stage and a decision stage. This is in line with a previously developed the adaptive control of thought-rational process model, called ACT-R, of the task. As a test of the generalization of our method we also apply it to a data set on the Sternberg working memory task collected by Jacobs, Hwang, Curran, and Kahana (2006). The analysis generalizes robustly, and localizes the typical set size effect in a late comparison/decision stage. In addition to providing information about the number and durations of stages in associative recognition, our analysis sheds light on the event-related potential components implicated in the study of recognition memory.
841	symbolic	2016	Tenison, C; Fincham, JM; Anderson, JR	Phases of learning: How skill acquisition impacts cognitive processing	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	This fMRI study examines the changes in participants' information processing as they repeatedly solve the same mathematical problem. We show that the majority of practice-related speedup is produced by discrete changes in cognitive processing. Because the points at which these changes take place vary from problem to problem, and the underlying information processing steps vary in duration, the existence of such discrete changes can be hard to detect. Using two converging approaches, we establish the existence of three learning phases. When solving a problem in one of these learning phases, participants can go through three cognitive stages: Encoding, Solving, and Responding. Each cognitive stage is associated with a unique brain signature. Using a bottom-up approach combining multi-voxel pattern analysis and hidden semi-Markov modeling, we identify the duration of that stage on any particular trial from participants brain activation patterns. For our top-down approach we developed an ACT-R model of these cognitive stages and simulated how they change over the course of learning. The Solving stage of the first learning phase is long and involves a sequence of arithmetic computations. Participants transition to the second learning phase when they can retrieve the answer, thereby drastically reducing the duration of the Solving stage. With continued practice, participants then transition to the third learning phase when they recognize the problem as a single unit and produce the answer as an automatic response. The duration of this third learning phase is dominated by the Responding stage. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
842	symbolic	2016	Hendriks, P	Cognitive Modeling of Individual Variation in Reference Production and Comprehension	FRONTIERS IN PSYCHOLOGY	A challenge for most theoretical and computational accounts of linguistic reference is the observation that language users vary considerably in their referential choices. Part of the variation observed among and within language users and across tasks may be explained from variation in the cognitive resources available to speakers and listeners. This paper presents a computational model of reference production and comprehension developed within the cognitive architecture ACT-R. Through simulations with this ACT-R model, it is investigated how cognitive constraints interact with linguistic constraints and features of the linguistic discourse in speakers' production and listeners' comprehension of referring expressions in specific tasks, and how this interaction may give rise to variation in referential choice. The ACT-R model of reference explains and predicts variation among language users in their referential choices as a result of individual and task-related differences in processing speed and working memory capacity. Because of limitations in their cognitive capacities, speakers sometimes underspecify or overspecify their referring expressions, and listeners sometimes choose incorrect referents or are overly liberal in their interpretation of referring expressions.
843	symbolic	2015	Dancy, CL; Ritter, FE; Berry, KA; Klein, LC	Using a cognitive architecture with a physiological substrate to represent effects of a psychological stressor on cognition	COMPUTATIONAL AND MATHEMATICAL ORGANIZATION THEORY	Adding a physiological representation to a cognitive architecture offers an attractive approach to modeling the effects of stress on cognition. We introduce ACT-R/I broken vertical bar, an extended version of the ACT-R cognitive architecture that includes an integrative model of physiology. The extension allows the representation of how physiology and cognition interact. This substrate was used to represent potential effects of a startle response and task-based stress during a mental arithmetic (subtraction) task. We compare predictions from two models loaded into the new hybrid architecture to models previously developed within ACT-R. General behavior differed between models in that the ACT-R/I broken vertical bar models had dynamic declarative memory noise over the course of the task based on varying epinephrine levels. They attempted more subtractions but were less accurate; this more closely matched human performance than the previous ACT-R models. Using ACT-R/I broken vertical bar allows a more tractable integration of current physiological and cognitive perspectives on stress. ACT-R/I broken vertical bar also permits further exploration of the interaction between cognition and physiology, and the emergent effects on behavior caused by the interaction among physiological subsystems. This extension is useful for anyone exploring how the human mind can occur in and be influenced by the physical universe.
844	symbolic	2014	Michalski, R	The influence of color grouping on users' visual search behavior and preferences	DISPLAYS	The article investigates how the various colors and color pairs used as grouping factors affect the visual search process and direct manipulation activities in the context of tailbar-like graphical panels. Red, green, and blue colors having the same perceptual distance in the CIELab space are used. The results demonstrate significant influence of the examined color-related factors on the speed and accuracy. The color preattentive property depends strongly on the grouping pattern: layouts with smaller colored areas were operated worse than panels divided into larger parts. Meaningful differences were also observed between panels with single and two colored backgrounds. Preferences were examined by pairwise comparisons before and after performing the 'search and select' tasks. Subjective judgments were significantly differentiated by the toolbar background color pattern both prior to the performance tasks and after them. The initial relative weights structure changed decidedly after the performance experience being more consistent with the 'search and select' results. The location factor was irrelevant for the speed and accuracy as well as for preferences. Objective and subjective findings are compared and discussed. Linear regression models showing the preference structure change and the relationship between mean acquisition times and mean preference weights are developed and discussed. (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier B.V.
845	symbolic	2014	Luduena, GA; Behzad, MD; Gros, C	Exploration in free word association networks: models and experiment	COGNITIVE PROCESSING	Free association is a task that requires a subject to express the first word to come to their mind when presented with a certain cue. It is a task which can be used to expose the basic mechanisms by which humans connect memories. In this work, we have made use of a publicly available database of free associations to model the exploration of the averaged network of associations using a statistical and the adaptive control of thought-rational (ACT-R) model. We performed, in addition, an online experiment asking participants to navigate the averaged network using their individual preferences for word associations. We have investigated the statistics of word repetitions in this guided association task. We find that the considered models mimic some of the statistical properties, viz the probability of word repetitions, the distance between repetitions and the distribution of association chain lengths, of the experiment, with the ACT-R model showing a particularly good fit to the experimental data for the more intricate properties as, for instance, the ratio of repetitions per length of association chains.
846	symbolic	2014	Cao, S; Qin, YL; Jin, XY; Zhao, L; Shen, MW	Effect of driving experience on collision avoidance braking: an experimental investigation and computational modelling	BEHAVIOUR & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY	Information technologies have been developed to facilitate driving performance and improve safety. However, there is a lack of computational methods that can take into account drivers' adaptation to driving. That is, how behaviour changes with experience. Modelling the effect of driving experience on driver behaviour is important to the development of in-vehicle information technologies, because drivers at different skill levels may need different types or levels of assistance. Cognitive-architecture-based human performance modelling is a valuable method that can integrate different cognitive aspects underlying human behaviour such as skill levels and support quantitative simulation of behaviour. The study reported in this paper tested and examined computational models built in ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) to account for the effect of driving experience on collision avoidance braking behaviour. The modelling results were compared with human data collected from a simulated driving experiment. The models produced braking behavioural results similar to the human results. Moreover, model predictions of three other emergent-braking scenarios were generally similar to and in the same order with the empirical results reported in previous studies. Future research can further integrate the method and results into intelligent driver assistance systems such as collision warning systems to better adjust the systems to the need of different drivers with different skill levels.
847	symbolic	2014	Khajah, MM; Lindsey, RV; Mozer, MC	Maximizing Students' Retention via Spaced Review: Practical Guidance From Computational Models of Memory	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	During each school semester, students face an onslaught of material to be learned. Students work hard to achieve initial mastery of the material, but when they move on, the newly learned facts, concepts, and skills degrade in memory. Although both students and educators appreciate that review can help stabilize learning, time constraints result in a trade-off between acquiring new knowledge and preserving old knowledge. To use time efficiently, when should review take place? Experimental studies have shown benefits to long-term retention with spaced study, but little practical advice is available to students and educators about the optimal spacing of study. The dearth of advice is due to the challenge of conducting experimental studies of learning in educational settings, especially where material is introduced in blocks over the time frame of a semester. In this study, we turn to two established models of memory-ACT-R and MCM-to conduct simulation studies exploring the impact of study schedule on long-term retention. Based on the premise of a fixed time each week to review, converging evidence from the two models suggests that an optimal review schedule obtains significant benefits over haphazard (suboptimal) review schedules. Furthermore, we identify two scheduling heuristics that obtain near optimal review performance: (a) review the material from l-weeks back, and (b) review material whose predicted memory strength is closest to a particular threshold. The former has implications for classroom instruction and the latter for the design of digital tutors.
848	symbolic	2013	Engelmann, F; Vasishth, S; Engbert, R; Kliegl, R	A Framework for Modeling the Interaction of Syntactic Processing and Eye Movement Control	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We explore the interaction between oculomotor control and language comprehension on the sentence level using two well-tested computational accounts of parsing difficulty. Previous work (Boston, Hale, Vasishth, & Kliegl, 2011) has shown that surprisal (Hale, 2001; Levy, 2008) and cue-based memory retrieval (Lewis & Vasishth, 2005) are significant and complementary predictors of reading time in an eyetracking corpus. It remains an open question how the sentence processor interacts with oculomotor control. Using a simple linking hypothesis proposed in Reichle, Warren, and McConnell (2009), we integrated both measures with the eye movement model EMMA (Salvucci, 2001) inside the cognitive architecture ACT-R (Anderson et al., 2004). We built a reading model that could initiate short Time Out regressions (Mitchell, Shen, Green, & Hodgson, 2008) that compensate for slow postlexical processing. This simple interaction enabled the model to predict the re-reading of words based on parsing difficulty. The model was evaluated in different configurations on the prediction of frequency effects on the Potsdam Sentence Corpus. The extension of EMMA with postlexical processing improved its predictions and reproduced re-reading rates and durations with a reasonable fit to the data. This demonstration, based on simple and independently motivated assumptions, serves as a foundational step toward a precise investigation of the interaction between high-level language processing and eye movement control.
849	symbolic	2009	Mihalyi, A; Deml, B; Augustin, T	A Contribution to Integrated Driver Modeling: A Coherent Framework for Modeling Both Non-routine and Routine Elements of the Driving Task	DIGITAL HUMAN MODELING, PROCEEDINGS	This paper is concerned with computational driver modeling, whereby a particular focus is placed on mapping both non-routine and routine elements of the driving task in a theoretically coherent framework. The approach is based on Salvucci's [1] driver model and thus, the cognitive architecture ACT-R [2] is used for modeling non-routine matters; for routine activities, such as the longitudinal and the lateral control of the vehicle, a fuzzy logic approach is Suggested. In order to demonstrate the applicability of this procedure, an empirical evaluation study is carried Out and the steering behavior of a computational driver model is compared to that of human drivers.
850	symbolic	2009	Wang, RF; Xiang, J; Zhou, HY; Qin, YL; Zhong, N	Simulating Human Heuristic Problem Solving: A Study by Combining ACT-R and fMRI Brain Image	BRAIN INFORMATICS, PROCEEDINGS	In this paper, we present an investigation on heuristics retrieval in human problem solving by combining the computational cognitive model ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought-Rational) and advanced fMRI (functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) brain imaging technique. As a new paradigm, 4*4 Sudoku is developed to facilitate this study, in which seven heuristics that can be classified into 3 groups are designed to solve two types of tasks: simple and complex ones. The cognitive processes of the two types of 4*4 Sudoku tasks are explored based on the outputs of ACT-R model. This study shows that several key elements take important roles in the retrieval of heuristics, including the ways of problem presentation, complexity of heuristics and status of goal. The fitness of model prediction to real participants' data on behavior and BOLD (Blood Oxygenation Level-Dependent) response in five predefined brain regions illustrates that our hypotheses and results are acceptable. This work is a significant step towards tackling the puzzle of the heuristics retrieval in human brain.
851	symbolic	2007	Dzaack, J; Trosterer, S; Pape, N; Urbas, L	A computational model of retrospective time estimation	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	Retrospective time estimation is an important aspect of dynamic systems and needs to be integrated in cognitive architectures. This article gives an overview of theoretical accounts of retrospective and prospective time estimation. Assumptions based on an experiment investigating retrospective time estimation conducted in our research group are presented. Integrating both we introduce a retrospective timer-module for ACT-R 6.0 and the corresponding estimation algorithm. The successful validation of the module is shown and further implications are discussed. (C) 2007 Elsevier B. V. All rights reserved.
852	symbolic	2007	Heuvelink, A; Both, F	BOA: A cognitive tactical picture compilation agent	PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE/WIC/ACM INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INTELLIGENT AGENT TECHNOLOGY (IAT 2007)	Simulation-based training in complex decision-making can be made more effective by using intelligent software agents to play key roles, such as teammates, opponents and instructors. This paper presents a cognitive software agent that is capable of compiling a tactical picture in the domain of Naval Anti-Surface Warfare. The agent is implemented in ACT-R and can perform this task in a simulated environment with a varying degree of quality, so it is usable for all the roles. The agent's behavior was evaluated in a session with military experts and although much work remains to be done, the research was positively evaluated.
853	symbolic	2006	Fu, WT; Bothell, D; Douglass, S; Haimson, C; Sohn, MH; Anderson, J	Toward a real-time model-based training system	INTERACTING WITH COMPUTERS	This article describes the development of a real-time model-based training system that provides adaptive "over-the-shoulder" (OTS) instructions to trainees as they learn to perform an Anti-Air Warfare Coordinator (AAWC) task. The long-term goal is to develop a system that will provide real-time instructional materials based on learners' actions, so that eventually the initial set of instructions on a task can be strengthened, complemented, or overridden at different stages of training. The training system is based on the ACT-R architecture, which serves as the theoretical background for the cognitive model that monitors the learning process of the trainee. An experiment was designed to study the impact of OTS instructions on learning. Results showed that while OTS instructions facilitated short-term learning, (a) they took time away from the processing of current information, (b) their effects tended to decay rapidly in initial stages of training, and (c) their effects on training diminished when the OTS instructions were proceduralized in later stages of training. A cognitive model that learned from both the upfront and OTS instructions was created and provided good fits to the learning and performance data collected from human participants. Our results suggest that to fully capture the symbiotic performance between humans and intelligent training systems, it is important to closely monitor the learning process of the trainee so that instructional interventions can be delivered effectively at different stages of training. We proposed that such a flexible system can be developed based on an adaptive cognitive model that provides real-time predictions on learning and performance. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
854	symbolic	2004	Fu, WT; Anderson, JR	Extending the Computational Abilities of the Procedural Learning Mechanism in ACT-R	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	The existing procedural learning mechanism in ACT-R (Anderson & Lebiere, 1998) has been successful in explaining a wide range of adaptive choice behavior. However, the existing mechanism is inherently limited to learning from binary feedback (i.e. whether a reward is received or not). It is thus difficult to capture choice behavior that is sensitive to both the probabilities of receiving a reward and the reward magnitudes. By modifying the temporal difference learning algorithm (Sutton & Barto, 1998), a new procedural learning mechanism is implemented that generalizes and extends the computational abilities of the current mechanism. Models using the new mechanism were fit to three sets of human data collected from experiments of probability learning and decision making tasks. The new procedural learning mechanism fit the data at least as well as the existing mechanism, and is able to fit data that are problematic for the existing mechanism. This paper also shows how the principle of reinforcement learning can be implemented in a production system like ACT-R.
855	symbolic	2004	Lim, JH; Liu, Y	A queuing network model for eye movement	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	Eye movement is a basic human behavior that offers a valuable means to explore human cognitive processes. This article introduces two modeling studies of eye movement. First, random menu search was modeled using a queueing network approach and second, a reinforcement learning algorithm was used to generate various eye movement patterns. Random menu search is a task component involved in many human-machine interfaces and has been modeled with several cognitive models including ACT-R and EPIC. Based upon review of empirical data in menu search, and strengths and limitations of existing models, this article proposes a queueing network model, which has been successfully applied in some other task domains (e.g., response time, driver performance). The queueing network model for random menu search was implemented and evaluated through model simulation. In contrast to existing models that rely on four task-specific strategies to account for data, the queueing network model accounted for the same data using only one strategy already employed in cognitive modeling. To extend this parsimonious, "minimal task strategy" modeling approach, Q-Learning, one of the reinforcement learning methods, was adopted to generate different patterns in eye movement. The same strategy from random menu search was used to generate eye movement, and the simulated eye movements were qualitatively compared to the human eye movement.
856	symbolic	2004	Salvucci, DD; Kushleyeva, Y; Lee, FJ	Toward an ACT-R general executive for human multitasking	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	While cognitive models of complex tasks have begun to incorporate increasingly sophisticated models of human multitasking, most models have utilized customized executives (Kieras et al., 2000) that fine-tune specific multitasking mechanisms for particular applications. This paper proposes a general executive for multitasking that facilitates the integration of separate task models and subsequent prediction of the effects of multitasking and task interaction. Developed in the ACT-R cognitive architecture, the general executive is specified as a new goal module that orders goals by urgency and their own requested running times. The paper demonstrates the predictive power of the general executive in the driving domain by integrating separate models of control and monitoring and predicting drivers' gaze distributions across various regions of the driving environment.
857	symbolic	2004	Young, RM	The data learning problem arises also in cognitive architectures other than soar	PROCEEDINGS OF THE SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COGNITIVE MODELING	The data learning problem is a phenomenon that arises when an agent employing a cognitive architecture faces the task of acquiring declarative information from an external source, such as the "answer" to a "question". Because the agent has to pay attention to both question and answer in order to team the association between them, it is problematic for the agent to learn to produce the answer in response to the question alone. This observation helps shape the basic characteristics of human memory. The problem was first reported with the Soar architecture, but it arises also in ACT-R, and this paper argues that it will occur in any cognitive architecture, connectionist as well as symbolic, which is specified in a sufficiently explicit manner to avoid having the theorist act as an implicit homunculus for the agent.
858	symbolic	2003	Camos, V	Coordination process in counting	INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGY	Counting is an important activity because it gives rise to a whole range of arithmetic activities. Counting objects requires subjects to point at each object and to say the corresponding number-word. Furthermore, to determine the correct cardinal of a set, the two activities of pointing and saying must be synchronized. This perfect correspondence between the two activities is achieved by a coordination process. Using Camos et al.'s (2001) paradigm, the present study tested the hypothesis that this coordination process will induce its own cognitive cost and that this cost would decrease with age. Eight-year-old children and adults were asked to say the numberline from 1 to 23, from 61 to 83, and from 111 to 133. They also pointed at objects in arrays that did or did not include distracters. Finally, they counted objects in arrays with or without distracters using the numberline starting at 1, then at 61, and then at 111. In children, as in adults, the simultaneous increase in the attentional demand of the pointing (due to the distracters) and the saying (for the numberline starting at 61 or 111) affected counting performance. However, it never made coordination more difficult. The coordination process in counting thus has a negligible cost. Moreover, an unexpected facilitation effect was observed. Indeed, when the attentional demand of saying was high, the simultaneous production of pointing increased the performance in saying the numberline. In other words, a verbal activity was facilitated by a concurrent motor activity. The negligible cost of coordination and the facilitation effect were both explained by an early compilation of counting as defined in ACT-R (Anderson, 1983, 1993).
859	symbolic	1999	Lerch, FJ; Gonzalez, C; Lebiere, C	Learning under high cognitive workload	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	This research investigates the impact of time pressure and individual differences on learning in a Real-Time Dynamic Decision Making (RTDDM) task. Our empirical results indicate that high time pressure generates high cognitive loads inhibiting learning. The results also show that high time pressure have a differential impact on the learning of individuals with high or low Working Memory (WM) capacity. We present a cognitive model based on ACT-R intended to explain learning in this task. Our cognitive model simulates learning by recognizing regularities in the decision task, and building "chunks" that guide decision making (instance-based learning). We describe how the model will be used to explain the impact of time pressure and WM capacity by varying the number of chunks acquired by the system given alternative time pressure conditions and individual differences.
860	symbolic	1999	Taatgen, NA	A model of learning task-specific knowledge for a new task	PROCEEDINGS OF THE TWENTY FIRST ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE COGNITIVE SCIENCE SOCIETY	In this paper I will present a detailed ACT-R model of how the task-specific knowledge for a new, complex task is learned. The model is capable of acquiring its knowledge through experience, using a declarative representation that is gradually compiled into a procedural representation. The model exhibits several characteristics that concur with Fitts' and Anderson's theories of skill learning, and can be used to show that individual differences in working-memory capacity initially have a large impact on performance, but that this impact diminished after sufficient experience, which is consistent with Ackermans's theory of skill learning. Some preliminary experimental data support these findings.
861	symbolic	1997	Grant, S	Cognitive architecture for modelling human error in complex dynamic tasks	TRAVAIL HUMAIN	Modelling human performance in complex tasks is progressing from lower-level architectures to now using cognitive architectures like ACT-R and Soar. Thee important differences between architectures include their capabilities for modelling human error. One can evaluate an architecture for modelling error by comparing observed types of error in real complex tasks with the potential mechanisms available in the architecture with which to model error. Anderson's ACT-R; Reason's fallible machine (underlying the COSIMO model); and Michael J. Young's Holon Cognitive Architecture (HCA) are here compared Conclusions are in terms of the outstanding changes for development of architecture towards being useful for models of human error in commercially important tasks, and towards greater ease for this evaluation.
862	symbolic	2016	Borst, JP; Ghuman, AS; Anderson, JR	Tracking cognitive processing stages with MEG: A spatio-temporal model of associative recognition in the brain	NEUROIMAGE	In this study, we investigated the cognitive processing stages underlying associative recognition using MEG. Over the last four decades, a model of associative recognition has been developed in the ACT-R cognitive architecture. This model was first exclusively based on behavior, but was later evaluated and improved based on fMRI and EEG data. Unfortunately, the limited spatial resolution of EEG and the limited temporal resolution of fMRI have made it difficult to fully understand the spatiotemporal dynamics of associative recognition. We therefore conducted an associative recognition experiment with MEG, which combines excellent temporal resolution with reasonable spatial resolution. To analyze the data, we applied non-parametric cluster analyses and a multivariate classifier. This resulted in a detailed spatio-temporalmodel of associative recognition. After the visual encoding of the stimuli in occipital regions, three separable memory processes took place: a familiarity process (temporal cortex), a recollection process (temporal cortex and supramarginal gyrus), and a representational process (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex). A late decision process (superior parietal cortex) then acted upon the recollected information represented in the prefrontal cortex, culminating in a late response process (motor cortex). We conclude that existing theories of associative recognition, including the ACT-R model, should be adapted to include these processes. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
863	symbolic	2016	Comai, S; Bertazzo, A; Vachon, J; Daigle, M; Toupin, J; Cote, G; Turecki, G; Gobbi, G	Tryptophan via serotonin/kynurenine pathways abnormalities in a large cohort of aggressive inmates: markers for aggression	PROGRESS IN NEURO-PSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY & BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Aggressive behavior is one of themost challenging symptomsin psychiatry, and biological markers for aggression lack of large sample validations. Serotonin (5-HT) and other neuroactive compounds deriving from Tryptophan (Trp), including kynurenine (Kyn), have not yet been investigated in large cohorts of aggressive individuals to validate their potential as biomarkers of aggression. In 361 male inmates we measured serum levels of Trp, 5-hydroxytryptophan, 5-HT, Kyn, the ratios 5-HT/Trp (*) 1000 and Kyn/Trp (*) 1000, and performed Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis-I and -II Disorders (SCID-I and -II), global assessment of functioning (GAF), and scales for aggressive behavior, impulsivity, adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and intelligent quotient (IQ). Aggressive compared to non-aggressive inmates exhibited lower Trp and Kyn serum levels but higher levels of 5-HT and 5-HT/Trp (*) 1000, higher levels of impulsivity and ADHD indices, lower IQ and GAF, higher prevalence of mood disorders, drug abuse/dependence, and borderline, conduct and antisocial behaviors. Interestingly, Kyn/Trp (*) 1000 was positively correlated to the number of severe aggressive acts (r = 0.593, P < 0.001). After adjusting for confounding factors, logistic regression analysis indicated that 5-HT/Trp (*) 1000, antisocial behavior, and GAF were predictors of aggressive behavior. The model combining these three predictors had an area under the ROC curve of 0.851 (95% CI 0.806-0.895). This study indicates that while circulating Trp is reduced in aggressive individuals, the combination of biological (5-HT/Trp ratio) and psychopathological (antisocial behavior and GAF) markers discriminates between aggressive and non-aggressive behavior suggesting the potential of a multi-marker approach in psychiatry given the heterogenic nature of mental diseases. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
864	symbolic	2016	Paik, J; Ritter, FE	Evaluating a range of learning schedules: hybrid training schedules may be as good as or better than distributed practice for some tasks	ERGONOMICS	We investigated theoretically and empirically a range of training schedules on tasks with three knowledge types: declarative, procedural, and perceptual-motor. We predicted performance for 6435 potential eight-block training schedules with ACT-R's declarative memory equations. Hybrid training schedules (schedules consisting of distributed and massed practice) were predicted to produce better performance than purely distributed or massed training schedules. The results of an empirical study (N=40) testing four exemplar schedules indicated a more complex picture. There were no statistical differences among the groups in the declarative and procedural tasks. We also found that participants in the hybrid practice groups produced reliably better performance than ones in the distributed practice group for the perceptual-motor task - the results indicate training schedules with some spacing and some intensiveness may lead to better performance, particularly for perceptual-motor tasks, and that tasks with mixed types of knowledge might be better taught with a hybrid schedule. Practitioner Summary: We explored distributed and massed training schedules as well as hybrids between them with respect to three knowledge types based on theories and an empirical study. The results suggest that industrial and operator training in complex tasks need not and probably should not be done on a distributed training schedule.
865	symbolic	2016	Stevens, CA; Taatgen, NA; Cnossen, F	Instance-Based Models of Metacognition in the Prisoner's Dilemma	TOPICS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE	In this article, we examine the advantages of simple metacognitive capabilities in a repeated social dilemma. Two types of metacognitive agent were developed and compared with a non-metacognitive agent and two fixed-strategy agents. The first type of metacognitive agent (opponent perspective) takes the perspective of the opponent to anticipate the opponent's future actions and respond accordingly. The other metacognitive agent (modeler) predicts the opponent's next move based on the previous moves of the agent and the opponent. The modeler agent achieves better individual outcomes than a non-metacognitive agent and is more successful at encouraging cooperation. The opponent-perspective agent, by contrast, fails to achieve these outcomes because it lacks important information about the opponent. These simple agents provide insights regarding modeling of metacognition in more complex tasks.
866	symbolic	2015	Moon, JA; Fincham, JM; Betts, S; Anderson, JR	End effects and cross-dimensional interference in identification of time and length: Evidence for a common memory mechanism	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	Memory plays a critical role in time estimation, yet detailed mechanisms underlying temporal memory have not been fully understood. The current functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study investigated memory phenomena in absolute identification of time durations and line lengths. In both time and length identification, participants responded faster to end-of-range stimuli (e.g., the shortest or longest items of the stimulus set) than to middle stimuli. Participants performed worse in the incongruent condition (mismatch between time and length in the stimulus position) than in the congruent condition, indicating cross-dimensional interference between time and length. Both phenomena reflect increased difficulty of retrieving information relevant to the current context in the presence of context-irrelevant information. A region in the lateral inferior prefrontal cortex showed a greater response to the middle stimuli and in the incongruent condition suggesting greater demands for controlled memory retrieval. A cognitive model based on the ACT-R (Adaptive Control of Thought - Rational) declarative memory mechanisms accounted for the major behavioral and imaging results. The results suggest that contextual effects in temporal memory can be understood in terms of domain-general memory principles established outside the time estimation domain.
867	symbolic	2014	Hope, RM; Schoelles, MJ; Gray, WD	Simplifying the interaction between cognitive models and task environments with the JSON Network Interface	BEHAVIOR RESEARCH METHODS	Process models of cognition, written in architectures such as ACT-R and EPIC, should be able to interact with the same software with which human subjects interact. By eliminating the need to simulate the experiment, this approach would simplify the modeler's effort, while ensuring that all steps required of the human are also required by the model. In practice, the difficulties of allowing one software system to interact with another present a significant barrier to any modeler who is not also skilled at this type of programming. The barrier increases if the programming language used by the modeling software differs from that used by the experimental software. The JSON Network Interface simplifies this problem for ACT-R modelers, and potentially, modelers using other systems.
868	symbolic	2007	Cohen, MX; Ranganath, C	Reinforcement learning signals predict future decisions	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Optimal behavior in a competitive world requires the flexibility to adapt decision strategies based on recent outcomes. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that this flexibility emerges through a reinforcement learning process, in which reward prediction errors are used dynamically to adjust representations of decision options. We recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) while subjects played a strategic economic game against a computer opponent to evaluate how neural responses to outcomes related to subsequent decision-making. Analyses of ERP data focused on the feedback-related negativity (FRN), an outcome-locked potential thought to reflect a neural prediction error signal. Consistent with predictions of a computational reinforcement learning model, we found that the magnitude of ERPs after losing to the computer opponent predicted whether subjects would change decision behavior on the subsequent trial. Furthermore, FRNs to decision outcomes were disproportionately larger over the motor cortex contralateral to the response hand that was used to make the decision. These findings provide novel evidence that humans engage a reinforcement learning process to adjust representations of competing decision options.
869	symbolic	1999	Horwitz, B; Tagamets, MA; McIntosh, AR	Neural modeling, functional brain imaging, and cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The richness and complexity of data sets acquired from PET or fMRI studies of human cognition have not been exploited until recently by computational neuronal modeling methods. In this article, two neural-modeling approaches for use with functional brain imaging data are described. One, which uses structural equation modeling, estimates the functional strengths of the anatomical connections between various brain regions during specific cognitive tasks. The second employs large-scale neural modeling to relate functional neuroimaging signals in multiple, interconnected brain regions to the underlying neurobiological time-varying activities in each region. Delayed match-to-sample (visual working memory for form) tasks are used to illustrate these models.
870	symbolic	1998	Miller, GF; Todd, PM	Mate choice turns cognitive	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Evolutionary psychology has revolutionized research on human mate choice and Sexual attraction in recent years, combining a rigorous Darwinian framework based On sexual selection theory with a loosely cognitivist orientation: to task analysis and mechanism modelling. This hard Darwinian, soft computational approach. has been most successful at revealing the adaptive logic behind physical beauty, demonstrating that many:sexual cues computed from face and body shape are not arbitrary, but function as reliable indicators of phenotypic and genetic quality. The same approach could be extended from physical to psychological cues if evolutionary psychology built stronger ties with personality psychology, psychometrics and behavioral genetics. A major challenge for mate choice research is to develop more explicit computational models at three levels, specifying: (1) the perceptual adaptations that register sexual cues given sensory: input, (2) the judgment adaptations that integrate multiple cues into assessments of overall attractiveness, and (3) the search strategies that people follow in trying:to form mutually attracted pairs. We describe both recent efforts and possible extensions in these directions. The resulting confluence between evolutionary principles cognitive models and game-theoretic insights can put mate choice research at the vanguard of an. emerging 'evolutionary cognitive science' more concerned With domain-specific mental, adaptations than with domain-general intelligence.
871	symbolic	2005	Deco, G; Rolls, ET	Attention, short-term memory, and action selection: A unifying theory	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	Cognitive behaviour requires complex context-dependent processing of information that emerges from the links between attentional perceptual processes, working memory and reward-based evaluation of the performed actions. We describe a computational neuroscience theoretical framework which shows how an attentional state held in a short term memory in the prefrontal cortex can by top-down processing influence ventral and dorsal stream cortical areas using biased competition to account for many aspects of visual attention. We also show how within the prefrontal cortex an attentional bias can influence the mapping of sensory inputs to motor outputs, and thus play an important role in decision making. We also show how the absence of expected rewards can switch an attentional bias signal, and thus rapidly and flexibly alter cognitive performance. This theoretical framework incorporates spiking and synaptic dynamics which enable single neuron responses, fMRI activations, psychophysical results, the effects of pharmacological agents, and the effects of damage to parts of the system to be explicitly simulated and predicted. This computational neuroscience framework provides an approach for integrating different levels of investigation of brain function, and for understanding the relations between them. The models also directly address how bottom-up and top-down processes interact in visual cognition, and show how some apparently serial processes reflect the operation of interacting parallel distributed systems. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
872	symbolic	2009	Verguts, T; Notebaert, W	Adaptation by binding: a learning account of cognitive control	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Cognitive control refers to the ability to repress our instantaneous urges in favor of more appropriate responses. Current debate concerns whether cognitive control effects that are studied in the laboratory (e.g. Stroop tasks) actually reflect the operation of a cognitive control system (adaptation theory) or instead merely reflect side effects of feature binding processes (binding theory). The two perspectives can be integrated by conceptualizing cognitive control as resulting from interactions between binding processes (as instantiated in Hebbian learning) and arousal. Conflict situations such as Stroop incongruent-stimuli lead to arousal and noradrenalin release throughout the brain, which facilitates binding between task-relevant cortical areas. Our proposal emphasizes an intimate link between cognitive and emotional processing.
873	symbolic	2006	Potts, GF; Martin, LE; Burton, P; Montague, PR	When things are better or worse than expected: The medial frontal cortex and the allocation of processing resources	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Access to limited-capacity neural systems of cognitive control must be restricted to the most relevant information. How the brain identifies and selects items for preferential processing is not fully understood. Anatomical models often place the selection mechanism in the medial frontal cortex (MFC), and one computational model proposes that the mesotelencephalic dopamine (DA) system, via its reward prediction properties, provides a "gate" through which information gains access to limited-capacity systems. There is a medial frontal event-related potential (ERP) index of attention selection, the anterior positivity (P2a), associated with DA reward system input to the MFC for the identification of task-relevant perceptual representations. The P2a has a similar spatio-temporal distribution as the medial frontal negativity (MFN), elicited to error responses or choices resulting in monetary loss. The MFN has also been linked to DA projections to the MFC but for action monitoring rather than attention selection. This study proposes that the P2a and the MFN reflect the same MFC evaluation function and use a passive reward prediction design containing neither instructed attention nor response to demonstrate that the ERP over medial frontal leads at the P2a/MFN latency is consistent with activity of midbrain DA neurons, positive to unpredicted rewards and negative when a predicted reward is withheld. This result suggests that MFC activity is regulated by DA reward system input and may function to identify items or actions that exceed or fail to meet motivational prediction.
874	symbolic	2006	Yeung, N; Cohen, JD	The impact of cognitive deficits on conflict monitoring - Predictable dissociations between the error-related negativity and N2	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Monitoring of ongoing processing plays a critical role in regulating cognitive function. Two event-related potential components, the error-related negativity (ERN) and N2, have been proposed to reflect this monitoring function. Specifically, it has been suggested that both components reflect the role of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in monitoring for the occurrence of response conflict. This view appears to be challenged by findings that alcohol consumption and lesions in ACC have dissociable effects on the ERN and N2. Using a computational model, the present research demonstrates that the conflict-monitoring theory can account for these dissociations in terms of the dissociable effects of alcohol and ACC lesions on processing of relevant stimulus information (which determines ERN amplitude) and processing of irrelevant, distracting information (which determines N2 amplitude). The simulation results suggest new interpretations of the cognitive deficits caused by alcohol consumption (impaired stimulus processing) and ACC lesions (impaired attentional control).
875	symbolic	2003	Mitsuo, K; Kuroda, T; Imamizu, H; Nakano, E; Miyauchi, S; Yoshioka, T	Internal forward models in the cerebellum: fMRI study on grip force and load force coupling	NEURAL CONTROL OF SPACE CODING AND ACTION PRODUCTION	Internal models are neural mechanisms that can mimic the input-output or output-input properties of the motor apparatus and external objects. Forward internal models predict sensory consequences from efference copies of motor commands. There is growing acceptance of the idea that forward models are important in sensorimotor integration as well as in higher cognitive function, but their anatomical loci and neural mechanisms are still largely unknown. Some of the most convincing evidence that the central nervous system (CNS) makes use of forward models in sensory motor control comes from studies on grip force-load force coupling. We first present a brief review of recent computational and behavioral studies that provide decisive evidence for the utilization of forward models in grip force-load force coupling tasks. Then, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure the brain activity related to this coupling and demonstrate that the cerebellum is the most likely site for forward models to be stored.
876	symbolic	2002	Large, EW; Palmer, C	Perceiving temporal regularity in music	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address how listeners perceive temporal regularity in music performances, which are rich in temporal irregularities. A computational model is described in which a small system of internal self-sustained oscillations, operating at different periods with specific phase and period relations, entrains to the rhythms of music performances. Based on temporal expectancies embodied by the oscillations, the model predicts the categorization of temporally changing event intervals into discrete metrical categories, as well as the perceptual salience of deviations from these categories. The model's predictions are tested in two experiments using piano performances of the same music with different phrase structure interpretations (Experiment 1) or different melodic interpretations (Experiment 2). The model successfully tracked temporal regularity amidst the temporal fluctuations found in the performances. The model's sensitivity to performed deviations from its temporal expectations compared favorably with the per-formers' structural (phrasal and melodic) intentions. Furthermore, the model tracked normal performances (with increased temporal variability) better than performances in which temporal fluctuations associated with individual voices were removed (with decreased variability). The small, systematic temporal irregularities characteristic of human performances (chord asynchronies) improved tracking, but randomly generated temporal irregularities did not. These findings suggest that perception of temporal regularity in complex musical sequences is based on temporal expectancies that adapt in response to temporally fluctuating input. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
877	symbolic	2002	Thomas, M; Karmiloff-Smith, A	Are developmental disorders like cases of adult brain damage? Implications from connectionist modelling	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	It is often assumed that similar domain-specific behavioural impairments found in cases of adult brain damage and developmental disorders correspond to similar underlying causes, and can serve as convergent evidence for the modular structure of the normal adult cognitive system. We argue that this correspondence is contingent on an unsupported assumption that atypical development can produce selective deficits while the rest of the system develops normally (Residual Normality), and that this assumption tends to bias data collection in the field. Based on a review of connectionist models of acquired and developmental disorders in the domains of reading and past tense, as well as on new simulations, we explore the computational viability of Residual Normality and the potential role of development in producing behavioural deficits. Simulations demonstrate that damage to a developmental model can produce very different effects depending on whether it occurs prior to or following the training process. Because developmental disorders typically involve damage prior to learning, we conclude that the developmental process is a key component of the explanation of endstate impairments in such disorders. further simulations demonstrate that in simple connectionist learning systems, the assumption of Residual Normality is undermined by processes of compensation or alteration elsewhere in the system. We outline the precise computational conditions required for Residual Normality to hold in development, and suggest that in many cases it is an unlikely hypothesis. We conclude that in developmental disorders, inferences from behavioural deficits to underlying structure crucially depend on developmental conditions, and that the process of ontogenetic development cannot be ignored in constructing models of developmental disorders.
878	symbolic	2011	Yassa, MA; Lacy, JW; Stark, SM; Albert, MS; Gallagher, M; Stark, CEL	Pattern Separation Deficits Associated With Increased Hippocampal CA3 and Dentate Gyrus Activity in Nondemented Older Adults	HIPPOCAMPUS	There is widespread evidence that memory deteriorates with aging, however the exact mechanisms that underlie these changes are not well understood. Given the growing size of the aging population, there is an imperative to study age-related neurocognitive changes in order to better parse healthy from pathological aging. Using a behavioral paradigm that taxes pattern separation (the ability to differentiate novel yet similar information from previously learned information and thus avoid interference), we investigated age-related neural changes in the human hippocampus using high-resolution (1.5 mm isotropic) blood-oxygenation level-dependent fMRI. Recent evidence from animal studies suggests that hyperactivity in the CA3 region of the hippocampus may underlie behavioral deficits in pattern separation in aged rats. Here, we report evidence that is consistent with findings from the animal studies. We found a behavioral impairment in pattern separation in a sample of healthy older adults compared with young controls. We also found a related increase in CA3/dentate gyrus activity levels during an fMRI contrast that stresses pattern separation abilities. In a detailed analysis of behavior, we also found that the pattern of impairment was consistent with the predictions of the animal model, where larger changes in the input (greater dissimilarity) were required in order for elderly adults to successfully encode new information as distinct from previously learned information. These findings are also consistent with recent fMRI and behavioral reports in healthy aging, and further suggest that a specific functional deficit in the CA3/dentate network contributes to memory difficulties with aging. (C) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
879	symbolic	2003	Raizada, RDS; Grossberg, S	Towards a theory of the laminar architecture of cerebral cortex: Computational clues from the visual system	CEREBRAL CORTEX	One of the most exciting and open research frontiers in neuroscience is that of seeking to understand the functional roles of the layers of cerebral cortex. New experimental techniques for probing the laminar circuitry of cortex have recently been developed, opening up novel opportunities for investigating how its six-layered architecture contributes to perception and cognition. The task of trying to interpret this complex structure can be facilitated by theoretical analyses of the types of computations that cortex is carrying out, and of how these might be implemented in specific cortical circuits. We have recently developed a detailed neural model of how the parvocellular stream of the visual cortex utilizes its feedforward, feedback and horizontal interactions for purposes of visual filtering, attention and perceptual grouping. This model, called LAMINART, shows how these perceptual processes relate to the mechanisms that ensure the stable development of cortical circuits in the infant, and to the continued stability of learning in the adult. The present article reviews this laminar theory of visual cortex, considers how it may be generalized towards a more comprehensive theory that encompasses other cortical areas and cognitive processes, and shows how its laminar framework generates a variety of testable predictions.
880	symbolic	2001	Salinas, E; Sejnowski, TJ	Gain modulation in the central nervous system: Where behavior, neurophysiology, and computation meet	NEUROSCIENTIST	Gain modulation is a nonlinear way in which neurons combine information from two (or more) sources, which may be of sensory, motor, or cognitive origin. Gain modulation is revealed when one input, the modulatory one, affects the gain or the sensitivity of the neuron to the other input, without modifying its selectivity or receptive field properties. This type of modulatory interaction is important for two reasons. First, it is an extremely widespread integration mechanism; it is found in a plethora of cortical areas and in some subcortical structures as well, and as a consequence it seems to play an important role in a striking variety of functions, including eye and limb movements, navigation, spatial perception, attentional processing, and object recognition. Second, there is a theoretical foundation indicating that gain-modulated neurons may serve as a basis for a general class of computations, namely, coordinate transformations and the generation of invariant responses, which indeed may underlie all the brain functions just mentioned. This article describes the relationships between computational models, the physiological properties of a variety of gain-modulated neurons, and some of the behavioral consequences of damage to gain-modulated neural representations.
881	symbolic	2007	Apud, JA; Mattay, V; Chen, JS; Kolachana, BS; Callicott, JH; Rasetti, R; Alce, G; Iudicello, JE; Akbar, N; Egan, MF; Goldberg, TE; Weinberger, DR	Tolcapone improves cognition and cortical information processing in normal human subjects	NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	Prefrontal cortical dopamine (DA) regulates various executive cognitive functions, including attention and working memory. Efforts to enhance prefrontal-related cognition, which have focused on catecholaminergic stimulant drugs, have been unsatisfactory. Recently, the demonstration that a functional polymorphism in the catecholamine-O-methyltransferase ( COMT) gene impacts prefrontal cognition raises the possibility of a novel pharmacological approach for the treatment of prefrontal lobe executive dysfunction. To explore in a proof of concept study the effects of tolcapone, a CNS penetrant specific COMT inhibitor, we performed a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, and crossover design of this drug in normal subjects stratified by COMT (val158met) genotype. COMT enzyme activity was determined in peripheral blood. Forty-seven normal volunteers with no family history of psychiatric disorders underwent neuropsychological testing and 34 of those subjects underwent physiological measurement of prefrontal information processing assessed by blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI). We found significant drug effects on measures of executive function and verbal episodic memory and a significant drug by genotype interaction on the latter, such that individuals with val/val genotypes improved, whereas individuals with met/met genotypes worsened on tolcapone. fMRI revealed a significant tolcapone-induced improvement in the efficiency of information processing in prefrontal cortex during a working memory test. This study demonstrates enhancement of prefrontal cortical function in normal human subjects with a nonstimulant drug having COMT inhibitory activity. Our results are consistent with data from animal studies and from computational models of the effects of selective enhancement of DA signaling in the prefrontal cortex.
882	symbolic	1998	O'Reilly, RC	Six principles for biologically based computational models of cortical cognition	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	This review describes and motivates six principles for computational cognitive neuroscience models: biological realism, distributed representations, inhibitory competition. bidirectional activation propagation, error-driven task learning, and Hebbian model learning. Although these principles are supported by a number of hive, computational and biological motivations, the prototypical neural-network I (a feedforward back-propagation network) incorporates only two of them, and widely used model incorporates all of them. It is argued here that these principles should be integrated into a coherent overall framework, and some potential synergies and conflicts in doing so are discussed.
883	symbolic	2005	Holroyd, CB; Yeung, N; Coles, MGH; Cohen, JD	A mechanism for error detection in speeded response time tasks	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The concept of error detection plays a central role in theories of executive control. In this article, the authors present a mechanism that can rapidly detect errors in speeded response time tasks. This error monitor assigns values to the output of cognitive processes involved in stimulus categorization and response generation and detects errors by identifying states of the system associated with negative value. The mechanism is formalized in a computational model based on a recent theoretical framework for understanding error processing in humans (C. B. Holroyd & M. G. H. Coles, 2002). The model is used to simulate behavioral and event-related brain potential data in a speeded response time task, and the results of the simulation are compared with empirical data.
884	symbolic	2005	Howard, MW; Fotedar, MS; Datey, AV; Hasselmo, ME	The temporal context model in spatial navigation and relational learning: Toward a common explanation of medial temporal lobe function across domains	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The medial temporal lobe (MTL) has been studied extensively at all levels of analysis, yet its function remains unclear. Theory regarding the cognitive function of the MTL has centered along 3 themes. Different authors have emphasized the role of the MTL in episodic recall, spatial navigation, or relational memory. Starting with the temporal context model (M. W. Howard & M. J. Kahana, 2002a), a distributed memory model that has been applied to benchmark data from episodic recall tasks, the authors propose that the entorhinal cortex supports a gradually changing representation of temporal context and the hippocampus proper enables retrieval of these contextual states. Simulation studies show this hypothesis explains the firing of place cells in the entorhinal cortex and the behavioral effects of hippocampal lesion in relational memory tasks. These results constitute a first step toward a unified computational theory of MTL function that integrates neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and cognitive findings.
885	symbolic	2013	Wang, M; Yang, Y; Wang, CJ; Gamo, NJ; Jin, LE; Mazer, JA; Morrison, JH; Wang, XJ; Arnsten, AFT	NMDA Receptors Subserve Persistent Neuronal Firing during Working Memory in Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex	NEURON	Neurons in the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dIPFC) generate persistent firing in the absence of sensory stimulation, the foundation of mental representation. Persistent firing arises from recurrent excitation within a network of pyramidal Delay cells. Here, we examined glutamate receptor influences underlying persistent firing in primate dIPFC during a spatial working memory task. Computational models predicted dependence on NMDA receptor (NMDAR) NR2B stimulation, and Delay cell persistent firing was abolished by local NR2B NMDAR blockade or by systemic ketamine administration. AMPA receptors (AMPARs) contributed background depolarization to sustain network firing. In contrast, many Response cells were sensitive to AMPAR blockade and increased firing after systemic ketamine, indicating that models of ketamine actions should be refined to reflect neuronal heterogeneity. The reliance of Delay cells on NMDAR may explain why insults to NMDARs in schizophrenia or Alzheimer's disease profoundly impair cognition.
886	symbolic	2010	Cavanagh, JF; Frank, MJ; Klein, TJ; Allen, JJB	Frontal theta links prediction errors to behavioral adaptation in reinforcement learning	NEUROIMAGE	Investigations into action monitoring have consistently detailed a frontocentral voltage deflection in the event-related potential (ERP) following the presentation of negatively valenced feedback, sometimes termed the feed back-related negativity (FRN). The FRN has been proposed to reflect a neural response to prediction errors during reinforcement learning, yet the single-trial relationship between neural activity and the quanta of expectation violation remains untested. Although ERP methods are not well suited to single-trial analyses, the FRN has been associated with theta band oscillatory perturbations in the medial prefrontal cortex. Mediofrontal theta oscillations have been previously associated with expectation violation and behavioral adaptation and are well suited to single-trial analysis. Here, we recorded EEG activity during a probabilistic reinforcement learning task and fit the performance data to an abstract computational model (Q-learning) for calculation of single-trial reward prediction errors. Single-trial theta oscillatory activities following feedback were investigated within the context of expectation (prediction error) and adaptation (subsequent reaction time change). Results indicate that interactive medial and lateral frontal theta activities reflect the degree of negative and positive reward prediction error in the service of behavioral adaptation. These different brain areas use prediction error calculations for different behavioral adaptations, with medial frontal theta reflecting the utilization of prediction errors for reaction time slowing (specifically following errors), but lateral frontal theta reflecting prediction errors leading to working memory-related reaction time speeding for the correct choice. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
887	symbolic	2011	Jones, M; Love, BC	Pinning down the theoretical commitments of Bayesian cognitive models	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	Mathematical developments in probabilistic inference have led to optimism over the prospects for Bayesian models of cognition. Our target article calls for better differentiation of these technical developments from theoretical contributions. It distinguishes between Bayesian Fundamentalism, which is theoretically limited because of its neglect of psychological mechanism, and Bayesian Enlightenment, which integrates rational and mechanistic considerations and is thus better positioned to advance psychological theory. The commentaries almost uniformly agree that mechanistic grounding is critical to the success of the Bayesian program. Some commentaries raise additional challenges, which we address here. Other commentaries claim that all Bayesian models are mechanistically grounded, while at the same time holding that they should be evaluated only on a computational level. We argue this contradictory stance makes it difficult to evaluate a model's scientific contribution, and that the psychological commitments of Bayesian models need to be made more explicit.
888	symbolic	2003	McCandliss, BD; Noble, KG	The development of reading impairment: A cognitive neuroscience model	MENTAL RETARDATION AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES RESEARCH REVIEWS	This review discusses recent cognitive neuroscience investigations into the biological bases of developmental dyslexia, a common disorder impacting approximately 5 to 17 percent of the population [Rutter, 1978, I. Prevalence and types of dyslexia. In: Benton A, Pearl D (eds.), Dyslexia: An appraisal of current knowledge. New York: Oxford; Stanovich, 1986, Matthew effects in reading: Some consequences of individual differences in the acquisition of literacy. Reading Research Quarterly 21: 360-407]. Our aim is to summarize central findings from several lines of evidence that converge on pivotal aspects of the brain bases of developmental dyslexia. We highlight ways in which the approaches and methodologies of developmental cognitive neuroscience that are addressed in this special issue-including neuroimaging, human genetics, refinement of cognitive and biological phenotypes, neural plasticity and computational model-can be employed in uncovering the biological bases of this disorder. Taking a developmental perspective on the biological bases of dyslexia, we propose a simple cascading model for the developmental progression of this disorder, in which individual differences in brain areas associated with phonological processing might influence the specialization of visual areas involved in the rapid processing of written words. We also discuss recent efforts to understand the impact of successful reading interventions in terms of changes within cortical circuits associated with reading ability. (C) 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
889	symbolic	2009	Wyble, B; Nieuwenstein, M; Bowman, H	The Attentional Blink Provides Episodic Distinctiveness: Sparing at a Cost	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-HUMAN PERCEPTION AND PERFORMANCE	The attentional blink (J. E. Raymond. K. L. Shapiro, & K. M. Arnett. 1992) refers to an apparent gap in perception observed when a second target follows a first within several hundred milliseconds. Theoretical and computational work have provided explanations for early sets of blink data, but more recent data have challenged these accounts by showing that the blink is attenuated when subjects encode strings of stimuli (J. Kawahara, T. Kumada. & V. Di Lollo. 2006 A R. Nieuwenstein & M. C. Potter. 2006: C. N. Olivers, 2007) or are distracted (C. N. Olivers & S. Nieuwenhuis. 2005) while viewing the rapid serial visual presentation stream. The authors describe the episodic simultaneous type, serial token model. a computational account of encoding Visual Stimuli into working memory that suggests that the attentional blink is a cognitive strategy rather than a resource limitation. This model is composed of neurobiologically plausible elements and simulates the attentional blink with a competitive attentional mechanism that facilitates the formation of episodically distinct representations within working memory. In addition to addressing the blink, the model addresses the phenomena of repetition blindness and whole report Superiority, producing predictions that are supported by experimental work.
890	symbolic	2011	Bonawitz, E; Shafto, P; Gweon, H; Goodman, ND; Spelke, E; Schulz, L	The double-edged sword of pedagogy: Instruction limits spontaneous exploration and discovery	COGNITION	Motivated by computational analyses, we look at how teaching affects exploration and discovery. In Experiment 1, we investigated children's exploratory play after an adult pedagogically demonstrated a function of a toy, after an interrupted pedagogical demonstration, after a naive adult demonstrated the function, and at baseline. Preschoolers in the pedagogical condition focused almost exclusively on the target function; by contrast, children in the other conditions explored broadly. In Experiment 2, we show that children restrict their exploration both after direct instruction to themselves and after overhearing direct instruction given to another child; they do not show this constraint after observing direct instruction given to an adult or after observing a non-pedagogical intentional action. We discuss these findings as the result of rational inductive biases. In pedagogical contexts, a teacher's failure to provide evidence for additional functions provides evidence for their absence: such contexts generalize from child to child (because children are likely to have comparable states of knowledge) but not from adult to child. Thus, pedagogy promotes efficient learning but at a cost: children are less likely to perform potentially irrelevant actions but also less likely to discover novel information. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier B.V.
891	symbolic	2006	Wilson, C	Learning phonology with substantive bias: An experimental and computational study of velar palatalization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	There is an active debate within the field of phonology concerning the cognitive status of substantive phonetic factors such as ease of articulation and perceptual distinctiveness. A new framework is proposed in which substance acts as a bias, or prior, on phonological learning. Two experiments tested this framework with a method in which participants are first provided highly impoverished evidence of a new phonological pattern, and then tested on how they extend this pattern to novel contexts and novel sounds. Participants were found to generalize velar palatalization (e.g., the change from [k] as in keep to [t integral] as in cheap) in a way that accords with linguistic typology, and that is predicted by a cognitive bias in favor of changes that relate perceptually similar sounds. Velar palatalization was extended from the mid front vowel context (i.e., before [e] as in cape) to the high front vowel context (i.e., before [i] as in keep), but not vice versa. The key explanatory notion of perceptual similarity is quantified with a psychological model of categorization, and the substantively biased framework is formalized as a conditional random field. Implications of these results for the debate on substance, theories of phonological generalization, and the formalization of similarity are discussed.
892	symbolic	1995	BIENENSTOCK, E	A MODEL OF NEOCORTEX	NETWORK-COMPUTATION IN NEURAL SYSTEMS	Prompted by considerations about (i) the compositionality of cognitive functions, (ii) the physiology of individual cortical neurons, (iii) the role of accurately timed spike patterns in cortex, and (iv) the regulation of global cortical activity, we suggest that the dynamics of cortex on the 1-ms time scale may be described as the activation of circuits of the synfirechain type (Abeles 1982, 1991).  We suggest that the fundamental computational unit in cortex may be a wave-like spatio-temporal pattern of synfire type, and that the binding mechanism underlying compositionality in cognition may be the accurate synchronization of synfire waves that propagate simultaneously on distinct, weakly coupled, synfire chains.  We propose that Hebbian synaptic plasticity may result in a superposition of synfire chains in cortical connectivity, whereby a given neuron participates in many distinct chains.  We investigate the behaviour of a much-simplified model of cortical dynamics devised along these principles.  Calculations and numerical experiments are performed based on an assumption of randomness of stored chains, in the style of statistical physics.  It is demonstrated that:  (i) there exists a critical value for the total length of stored chains; (ii) this storage capacity is linear in the network's size; (iii) the behaviour of the network around the critical point is characterized by the self-regulation of the number of synfire waves coactive in the network at any given time.
893	symbolic	1993	GEARY, DC; FRENSCH, PA; WILEY, JG	SIMPLE AND COMPLEX MENTAL SUBTRACTION - STRATEGY CHOICE AND SPEED-OF-PROCESSING DIFFERENCES IN YOUNGER AND OLDER ADULTS	PSYCHOLOGY AND AGING	Thirty-six younger adults (10 male, 26 female; ages 18 to 38 years) and 36 older adults (14 male, 22 female; ages 61 to 80 years) completed simple and complex paper-and-pencil subtraction tests and solved a series of simple and complex computer-presented subtraction problems. For the computer task, strategies and solution times were recorded on a trial-by-trial basis. Older Ss used a developmentally more mature mix of problem-solving strategies to solve both simple and complex subtraction problems. Analyses of component scores derived from the solution times suggest that the older Ss are slower at number encoding and number production but faster at executing the borrow procedure. In contrast, groups did not appear to differ in the speed of subtraction fact retrieval. Results from a computational simulation are consistent with the interpretation that older adults' advantage for strategy choices and for the speed of executing the borrow procedure might result from more practice solving subtraction problems.
894	symbolic	2011	Deco, G; Corbetta, M	The Dynamical Balance of the Brain at Rest	NEUROSCIENTIST	The authors review evidence that spontaneous, that is, not stimulus or task driven, activity in the brain at the level of large-scale neural systems is not noise, but orderly and organized in a series of functional networks that maintain, at all times, a high level of coherence. These networks of spontaneous activity correlation or resting state networks (RSN) are closely related to the underlying anatomical connectivity, but their topography is also gated by the history of prior task activation. Network coherence does not depend on covert cognitive activity, but its strength and integrity relates to behavioral performance. Some RSN are functionally organized as dynamically competing systems both at rest and during tasks. Computational studies show that one of such dynamics, the anticorrelation between networks, depends on noise-driven transitions between different multistable cluster synchronization states. These multistable states emerge because of transmission delays between regions that are modeled as coupled oscillators systems. Large-scale systems dynamics are useful for keeping different functional subnetworks in a state of heightened competition, which can be stabilized and fired by even small modulations of either sensory or internal signals.
895	symbolic	2008	Niv, Y; Schoenbaum, G	Dialogues on prediction errors	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The recognition that computational ideas from reinforcement learning are relevant to the study of neural circuits has taken the cognitive neuroscience community by storm. A central tenet of these models is that discrepancies between actual and expected outcomes can be used for learning. Neural correlates of such prediction-error signals have been observed now in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, striatum, amygdala and even prefrontal cortex, and models incorporating prediction errors have been invoked to explain complex phenomena such as the transition from goal-directed to habitual behavior. Yet, like any revolution, the fast-paced progress has left an uneven understanding in its wake. Here, we provide answers to ten simple questions about prediction errors, with the aim of exposing both the strengths and the limitations of this active area of neuroscience research.
896	symbolic	1998	Burgess, C; Livesay, K; Lund, K	Explorations in context space: Words, sentences, discourse	DISCOURSE PROCESSES	Deriving representations of meaning, whether at the word, the sentence, or the discourse level, is a problem with a long history in cognitive psychology and psycholinguistics. In this article, we describe a computational model of high-dimensional context space, the Hyperspace Analog to Language (HAL), and present simulation evidence that HAL's vector representations can provide sufficient information to make semantic, grammatical, and abstract distinctions. Human participants were able to use the context neighborhoods that HAL generates to match words with similar items and to derive the word (or a similar word) from the neighborhood, thus demonstrating the cognitive compatibility of the representations with human processing. An experiment exploring the meaning of agent- and patient-oriented verbs provided the context for discussing how the connotative aspects of word neighborhoods could provide cues in establishing a discourse model. Using the vector representations to build a sentence-level representation was attempted, but the results were not promising. This limitation of the representations is presented in the context of other similar models that have been more effective, A final set of experiments explored the nature of;verbs and verb instruments, and we introduce a new methodology that extracts conceptual intersections from the high-dimensional context space.
897	symbolic	2002	Li, SC; Sikstrom, S	Integrative neurocomputational perspectives on cognitive aging, neuromodulation, and representation	NEUROSCIENCE AND BIOBEHAVIORAL REVIEWS	Besides neuroanatomical changes, neuromodulatory mechanisms are also compromised during aging. Neural network models are suitable tools for exploring the relatively broad and homogenous neuromodulatory influences on cortical function. Computational approaches for understanding neuromodulation of the dynamic properties of cortical function and recent neurocomputational theories relating different aspects of cognitive aging with declines in neuromodulation are reviewed. Considered within an integrative cross-level neurocomputational framework, aging-related decline in dopaminergic neurornodulation reduces the fidelity of neural information and gives rise to less distinctive neural pattern representations that may underlie various facets of aging cognitive and, possibly also, sensorimotor phenomena. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
898	symbolic	2005	Goldstone, RL; Janssen, MA	Computational models of collective behavior	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Computational models of human collective behavior offer promise in providing quantitative and empirically verifiable accounts of how individual decisions lead to the emergence of group-level organizations. Agent-based models (ABMs) describe interactions among individual agents and their environment, and provide a process-oriented alternative to descriptive mathematical models. Recent ABMs provide compelling accounts of group pattern formation, contagion and cooperation, and can be used to predict, manipulate and improve upon collective behavior. ABMs overcome an assumption that underlies much of cognitive science-that the individual is the crucial unit of cognition. The alternative advocated here is that individuals participate in collective organizations that they might not understand or even perceive, and that these organizations affect and are affected by individual behavior.
899	symbolic	2013	Kriegeskorte, N; Kievit, RA	Representational geometry: integrating cognition, computation, and the brain	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The cognitive concept of representation plays a key role in theories of brain information processing. However, linking neuronal activity to representational content and cognitive theory remains challenging. Recent studies have characterized the representational geometry of neural population codes by means of representational distance matrices, enabling researchers to compare representations across stages of processing and to test cognitive and computational theories. Representational geometry provides a useful intermediate level of description, capturing both the information represented in a neuronal population code and the format in which it is represented. We review recent insights gained with this approach in perception, memory, cognition, and action. Analyses of representational geometry can compare representations between models and the brain, and promise to explain brain computation as transformation of representational similarity structure.
900	symbolic	2012	Frost, R	Towards a universal model of reading	BEHAVIORAL AND BRAIN SCIENCES	In the last decade, reading research has seen a paradigmatic shift. A new wave of computational models of orthographic processing that offer various forms of noisy position or context-sensitive coding have revolutionized the field of visual word recognition. The influx of such models stems mainly from consistent findings, coming mostly from European languages, regarding an apparent insensitivity of skilled readers to letter order. Underlying the current revolution is the theoretical assumption that the insensitivity of readers to letter order reflects the special way in which the human brain encodes the position of letters in printed words. The present article discusses the theoretical shortcomings and misconceptions of this approach to visual word recognition. A systematic review of data obtained from a variety of languages demonstrates that letter-order insensitivity is neither a general property of the cognitive system nor a property of the brain in encoding letters. Rather, it is a variant and idiosyncratic characteristic of some languages, mostly European, reflecting a strategy of optimizing encoding resources, given the specific structure of words. Since the main goal of reading research is to develop theories that describe the fundamental and invariant phenomena of reading across orthographies, an alternative approach to model visual word recognition is offered. The dimensions of a possible universal model of reading, which outlines the common cognitive operations involved in orthographic processing in all writing systems, are discussed.
901	symbolic	1996	Shultz, TR; Lepper, MR	Cognitive dissonance reduction as constraint satisfaction	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	A constraint satisfaction neural network model (the consonance model) simulated data from the two major cognitive dissonance paradigms of insufficient justification and free choice. In several cases, the model fit the human data better than did cognitive dissonance theory. Superior fits were due to the inclusion of constraints that were not part of dissonance theory and to the increased precision inherent to this computational approach. Predictions generated by the model for a free choice between undesirable alternatives were confirmed in a new psychological experiment. The success of the consonance model underscores important, unforeseen similarities between what had been formerly regarded as the rather exotic process of dissonance reduction and a variety of other, more mundane psychological processes. Many of these processes can be understood as the progressive application of constraints supplied by beliefs and attitudes.
902	symbolic	2009	Cohen, MX; Frank, MJ	Neurocomputational models of basal ganglia function in learning, memory and choice	BEHAVIOURAL BRAIN RESEARCH	The basal ganglia (BG) are critical for the coordination of several motor, cognitive, and emotional functions and become dysfunctional in several pathological states ranging from Parkinson's disease to Schizophrenia. Here we review principles developed within a neurocomputational framework of BG and related circuitry which provide insights into their functional roles in behavior. We focus on two classes of models: those that incorporate aspects of biological realism and constrained by functional principles, and more abstract mathematical models focusing on the higher level computational goals of the BG. While the former are arguably more "realistic", the latter have a complementary advantage in being able to describe functional principles of how the system works in a relatively simple set of equations, but are less suited to making specific hypotheses about the roles of specific nuclei and neurophysiological processes. We review the basic architecture and assumptions of these models, their relevance to our understanding of the neurobiological and cognitive functions of the BG, and provide an update on the potential roles of biological details not explicitly incorporated in existing models. Empirical studies ranging from those in transgenic mice to dopaminergic manipulation, deep brain stimulation, and genetics in humans largely support model predictions and provide the basis for further refinement. Finally, we discuss possible future directions and possible ways to integrate different types of models. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
903	symbolic	2007	Brown, JW; Reynolds, JR; Braver, TS	A computational model of fractionated conflict-control mechanisms in task-switching	COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	A feature of human cognition is the ability to monitor and adjust one's own behavior under changing circumstances. A dynamic balance between controlled and rapid responding is needed to adapt to a fluctuating environment. We suggest that cognitive control may include, among other things, two distinct processes. Incongruent stimuli may drive top-down facilitation of task-relevant responses to bias performance toward exploitation vs. exploration. Task or response switches may generally slow responses to bias toward accuracy vs. speed and exploration vs. exploitation. Behavioral results from a task switching study demonstrate these two distinct processes as revealed by higher-order sequential effects. A computational model implements the two conflict-control mechanisms, which allow it to capture many complex and novel sequential effects. Lesion studies with the model demonstrate that the model is unable to capture these effects without the conflict-control loops and show how each monitoring component modulates cognitive control. The results suggest numerous testable predictions regarding the neural substrates of cognitive control. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
904	symbolic	1999	Klahr, D; Simon, HA	Studies of scientific discovery: Complementary approaches and convergent findings	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	This review integrates 4 major approaches to the study of science-historical accounts of scientific discoveries, psychological experiments with nonscientists working on tasks related to scientific discoveries, direct observation of ongoing scientific laboratories, and computational modeling of scientific discovery processes-by viewing them through the lens of the theory of human problem solving. The authors provide a brief justification for the study of scientific discovery, a summary of the major approaches, and criteria for comparing and contrasting them. Then, they apply these criteria to the different approaches and indicate their complementarities. Finally, they provide several examples of convergent principles of the process of scientific discovery.
905	symbolic	1996	Plaut, DC	Relearning after damage in connectionist networks: Toward a theory of rehabilitation	BRAIN AND LANGUAGE	Connectionist modeling offers a useful computational framework for exploring the nature of normal and impaired cognitive processes. The current work extends the relevance of connectionist modeling in neuropsychology to address issues in cognitive rehabilitation: the degree and speed of recovery through retraining, the extent to which improvement on treated items generalizes to untreated items, and how treated items are selected to maximize this generalization. A network previously used to model impairments in mapping orthography to semantics is retrained after damage. The degree of relearning and generalization varies considerably for different lesion locations, and has interesting implications for understanding the nature and variability of recovery in patients. Tn a second simulation, retraining on words whose semantics are atypical of their category yields more generalization than retraining on more typical words, suggesting a counterintuitive strategy for selecting items in patient therapy to maximize recovery. In a final simulation, changes in the pattern of errors produced by the network over the course of recovery is used to constrain explanations of the nature of recovery of analogous brain-damaged patients. Taken together, the findings demonstrate that the nature of relearning in damaged connectionist networks can make important contributions to a theory of rehabilitation in patients. (C) 1996 Academic Press, Inc.
906	symbolic	2007	Frank, MJ; Santamaria, A; O'Reilly, RC; Willcutt, E	Testing computational models of dopamine and noradrenaline dysfunction in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder	NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	We test our neurocomputational model of fronto-striatal dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) function for understanding cognitive and motivational deficits in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Our model predicts that low striatal DA levels in ADHD should lead to deficits in 'Go' learning from positive reinforcement, which should be alleviated by stimulant medications, as observed with DA manipulations in other populations. Indeed, while nonmedicated adult ADHD participants were impaired at both positive ( Go) and negative (NoGo) reinforcement learning, only the former deficits were ameliorated by medication. We also found evidence for our model's extension of the same striatal DA mechanisms to working memory, via interactions with prefrontal cortex. In a modified AX-continuous performance task, ADHD participants showed reduced sensitivity to working memory contextual information, despite no global performance deficits, and were more susceptible to the influence of distractor stimuli presented during the delay. These effects were reversed with stimulant medications. Moreover, the tendency for medications to improve Go relative to NoGo reinforcement learning was predictive of their improvement in working memory in distracting conditions, suggestive of common DA mechanisms and supporting a unified account of DA function in ADHD. However, other ADHD effects such as erratic trial-to-trial switching and reaction time variability are not accounted for by model DA mechanisms, and are instead consistent with cortical noradrenergic dysfunction and associated computational models. Accordingly, putative NA deficits were correlated with each other and independent of putative DA-related deficits. Taken together, our results demonstrate the usefulness of computational approaches for understanding cognitive deficits in ADHD.
907	symbolic	1999	Humphreys, GW; Price, CJ; Riddoch, MJ	From objects to names: A cognitive neuroscience approach	PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH-PSYCHOLOGISCHE FORSCHUNG	To name an object, we need both to recognize it and to access the associated phonological form, and phonological retrieval itself may be constrained by aspects of the visual recognition process. This paper reviews evidence for such constraints, drawing on data from experimental psychology, neuropsychology, functional imaging, and computational modelling. Data on picture identification in normal observers demonstrate that the speed of name retrieval processes differs for natural objects and artifacts, due at least in part to differences in visual similarity between exemplars within these categories. Also, effects of variables on early and late stages of object identification combine in an interactive rather than an additive manner, consistent with object processing stages operating in a continuous rather than a discrete manner. Neuropsychological evidence supports this proposal, demonstrating that subtle perceptual deficits can produce naming problems, even when there is good access to associated semantic knowledge. Functional activation studies further show increased activity in visual processing areas when conditions stress object naming relative to the recognition of familiar object structures. These studies indicate that object naming is based on a series of continuous processing stages and that naming involves increased visual processing relative to recognition tasks. The data can be modelled within an interactive activation and competition framework.
908	symbolic	2011	Jepma, M; Nieuwenhuis, S	Pupil Diameter Predicts Changes in the Exploration-Exploitation Trade-off: Evidence for the Adaptive Gain Theory	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	The adaptive regulation of the balance between exploitation and exploration is critical for the optimization of behavioral performance. Animal research and computational modeling have suggested that changes in exploitative versus exploratory control state in response to changes in task utility are mediated by the neuromodulatory locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system. Recent studies have suggested that utility-driven changes in control state correlate with pupil diameter, and that pupil diameter can be used as an indirect marker of LC activity. We measured participants' pupil diameter while they performed a gambling task with a gradually changing payoff structure. Each choice in this task can be classified as exploitative or exploratory using a computational model of reinforcement learning. We examined the relationship between pupil diameter, task utility, and choice strategy (exploitation vs. exploration), and found that (i) exploratory choices were preceded by a larger baseline pupil diameter than exploitative choices; (ii) individual differences in baseline pupil diameter were predictive of an individual's tendency to explore; and (iii) changes in pupil diameter surrounding the transition between exploitative and exploratory choices correlated with changes in task utility. These findings provide novel evidence that pupil diameter correlates closely with control state, and are consistent with a role for the LC-NE system in the regulation of the exploration-exploitation trade-off in humans.
909	symbolic	2009	Marsella, SC; Gratch, J	EMA: A process model of appraisal dynamics	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	A computational model of emotion must explain both the rapid dynamics of some emotional reactions as well as the slower responses that follow deliberation. This is often addressed by positing multiple levels of appraisal processes such as fast pattern directed vs. slower deliberative appraisals. In our view, this confuses appraisal with inference. Rather, we argue for a single and automatic appraisal process that operates over a person's interpretation of their relationship to the environment. Dynamics arise from perceptual and inferential processes operating on this interpretation (including deliberative and reactive processes). This article discusses current developments in a computational model of emotion processes and illustrates how a single-level model of appraisal obviates a multi-level approach within the context of modeling a naturalistic emotional situation. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
910	symbolic	2009	He, Y; Chen, Z; Gong, GL; Evans, A	Neuronal Networks in Alzheimer's Disease	NEUROSCIENTIST	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease that call be clinically characterized by impaired memory and many other cognitive functions. Previous studies have demonstrated that the impairment is accompanied by not only regional brain abnormalities but also changes in neuronal connectivity between anatomically distinct brain regions. Specifically, using neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques as well as advanced graph theory-based computational approaches, several recent studies have suggested that AD patients have disruptive neuronal integrity in large-scale structural and functional brain Systems Underlying high-level cognition, as demonstrated by a loss of small-world network characteristics. Small world is an attractive model for the description of complex brain networks because it can Support both segregated and integrated information processing. The altered small-world organization thus reflects aberrant neuronal connectivity in the AD brain that is most likely to explain cognitive deficits caused by this disease. In this review, we will summarize recent advances in the brain network research on AD, focusing mainly on the large-scale structural and functional descriptions. I Me literature reviewed here Suggests that AD patients are associated with integrative abnormalities in the distributed neuronal networks, which could provide new insights into the disease mechanism in AD and help LIS to uncover an imaging-based biomarker for the diagnosis and monitoring of the disease.
911	symbolic	2007	Fu, WT; Pirolli, P	SNIF-ACT: A cognitive model of user navigation on the World Wide Web	HUMAN-COMPUTER INTERACTION	We describe the development of a computational cognitive model that explains navigation behavior on the World Wide Web. The model, called SNIF-ACT (Scent-based Navigation and Information Foraging in the ACT cognitive architecture), is motivated by Information Foraging Theory (IFT), which quantifies the perceived relevance of a Web link to a user's goal by a spreading activation mechanism. The model assumes that users evaluate links on a Web page sequentially and decide to click on a link or to go back to the previous page by a Bayesian satisficing model (BSM) that adaptively evaluates and selects actions based on a combination of previous and current assessments of the relevance of link texts to information goals. SNIF-ACT 1.0 utilizes the measure of utility, called information scent, derived from IFT to predict rankings of links on different Web pages. The model was tested against a detailed set of protocol data collected from 8 participants as they engaged in two information-seeking tasks using the World Wide Web. The model provided a good match to participants' link selections. In SNIF-ACT 2.0, we included the adaptive link selection mechanism from the BSM that sequentially evaluates links on a Web page. The mechanism allowed the model to dynamically build up the aspiration levels of actions in a satisficing process (e.g., to follow a link or leave a Web site) as it sequential assessed link texts on a Web page. The dynamic mechanism provides an integrated account of how and when users decide to click on a link or leave a page based on the sequential, ongoing experiences with the link context on current and previous Web pages. SNIF-ACT 2.0 was validated on a data set obtained from 74 subjects. Monte Carlo simulations of the model showed that SNIF-ACT 2.0 provided better fits to human data than SNIF-ACT 1.0 and a Position model that used position of links on a Web page to decide which link to select. We conclude that the combination of the IFT and the BSM provides a good description of user-Web interaction. Practical implications of the model are discussed.
912	symbolic	2010	Stocco, A; Lebiere, C; Anderson, JR	Conditional Routing of Information to the Cortex: A Model of the Basal Ganglia's Role in Cognitive Coordination	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The basal ganglia play a central role in cognition and are involved in such general functions as action selection and reinforcement learning. Here, we present a model exploring the hypothesis that the basal ganglia implement a conditional information-routing system. The system directs the transmission of cortical signals between pairs of regions by manipulating separately the selection of sources and destinations of information transfers. We suggest that such a mechanism provides an account for several cognitive functions of the basal ganglia. The model also incorporates a possible mechanism by which subsequent transfers of information control the release of dopamine. This signal is used to produce novel stimulus-response associations by internalizing transferred cortical representations in the striatum. We discuss how the model is related to production systems and cognitive architectures. A series of simulations is presented to illustrate how the model can perform simple stimulus response tasks, develop automatic behaviors, and provide an account of impairments in Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.
913	symbolic	2014	Neunuebel, JP; Knierim, JJ	CA3 Retrieves Coherent Representations from Degraded Input: Direct Evidence for CA3 Pattern Completion and Dentate Gyrus Pattern Separation	NEURON	Theories of associative memory suggest that successful memory storage and recall depend on a balance between two complementary processes: pattern separation (to minimize interference) and pattern completion (to retrieve a memory when presented with partial or degraded input cues). Putative attractor circuitry in the hippocampal CA3 region is thought to be the final arbiter between these two processes. Here we present direct, quantitative evidence that CA3 produces an output pattern closer to the originally stored representation than its degraded input patterns from the dentate gyrus (DG). We simultaneously recorded activity from CA3 and DG of behaving rats when local and global reference frames were placed in conflict. CA3 showed a coherent population response to the conflict (pattern completion), even though its DG inputs were severely disrupted (pattern separation). The results thus confirm the hall-nark predictions of a longstanding computational model of hippocampal memory processing.
914	symbolic	2013	Wiecki, TV; Frank, MJ	A Computational Model of Inhibitory Control in Frontal Cortex and Basal Ganglia	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Planning and executing volitional actions in the face of conflicting habitual responses is a critical aspect of human behavior. At the core of the interplay between these 2 control systems lies an override mechanism that can suppress the habitual action selection process and allow executive control to take over. Here, we construct a neural circuit model informed by behavioral and electrophysiological data collected on various response inhibition paradigms. This model extends a well-established model of action selection in the basal ganglia by including a frontal executive control network that integrates information about sensory input and task rules to facilitate well-informed decision making via the oculomotor system. Our simulations of the anti-saccade, Simon, and saccade-override tasks ensue in conflict between a prepotent and controlled response that causes the network to pause action selection via projections to the subthalamic nucleus. Our model reproduces key behavioral and electrophysiological patterns and their sensitivity to lesions and pharmacological manipulations. Finally, we show how this network can be extended to include the inferior frontal cortex to simulate key qualitative patterns of global response inhibition demands as required in the stop-signal task.
915	symbolic	2008	Kalenscher, T; Pennartz, CMA	Is a bird in the hand worth two in the future? The neuroeconomics of intertemporal decision-making	PROGRESS IN NEUROBIOLOGY	When making intertemporal decisions, i.e., decisions between outcomes occurring at different instants in time, humans and animals prefer rewards with short-term availability over rewards that become available in the long run. Discounted utility theory (DUT) is an influential normative model for intertemporal decisions that attempts to capture preference over time. It prescribes which is the best decision to take with respect to consistent, coherent and optimal choice. Over the last few decades, DUT's descriptive validity has been critically challenged. Empirical studies found systematic violations of several of DUT's assumptions, including time-consistency of preferences, stationarity, constant discounting and utility maximisation. To account for these anomalies, alternative models have been devised in various academic disciplines, including economics, psychology, biology, philosophy, and most lately, cognitive neuroscience. This article reviews the most recent literature on the behavioural and neural processes underlying intertemporal choices, and elucidates to which extent these findings can be used to explain violations of DUT's assumptions. In the first three sections, DUT is introduced, and behavioural anomalies are discussed. The fourth part focuses on the neuroscience of intertemporal choice, including its functional neuroanatomy, attempts to find a discounted value signal in the brain, and recent efforts to identify neural mechanisms producing time-inconsistencies. In the last section, the computational literature on neural learning mechanisms is reviewed. Then, a new, biologically plausible computational model of intertemporal choice is proposed that is able to explain many of the behavioural anomalies. The implications of these results help to understand why humans and animals frequently decide irrationally and to their long-term economic disadvantage, and which neural mechanisms underly such decisions. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
916	symbolic	2007	Rosenbaum, DA; Cohen, RG; Jax, SA; Weiss, DJ; van der Wel, R	The problem of serial order in behavior: Lashley's legacy	HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCE	In a prescient paper Karl Lashley (1951) rejected reflex chaining accounts of the sequencing of behavior and argued instead for a more cognitive account in which behavioral sequences are typically controlled with central plans. An important feature of such plans, according to Lashley, is that they are hierarchical. Lashley offered several sources of evidence for the hierarchical organization for behavioral plans, and others afterward provided more evidence for this hypothesis. We briefly review that evidence here and then shift from a focus on the structure of plans (Lashley's point of concentration) to the processes by which plans are formed in real time. Two principles emerge from the studies we review. One is that plans are not formed from scratch for each successive movement sequence but instead are formed by making whatever changes are needed to distinguish the movement sequence to be performed next from the movement sequence that has just been performed. This plan-modification view is supported by two phenomena discovered in our laboratory: the parameter remapping effect, and the handpath priming effect. The other principle we review is that even single movements appear to be controlled with hierarchically organized plans. At the top level are the starting and goal postures. At the lower level are the intermediate states comprising the transition from the starting posture to the goal posture. The latter principle is supported by another phenomenon discovered in our lab, the end-state comfort effect, and by a computational model of motor planning which accounts for a large number of motor phenomena. Interestingly, the computational model hearkens back to a classical method of generating cartoon animations that relies on the production of keyframes first and the production of interframes (intermediate frames) second. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
917	symbolic	2006	Pearce, MT; Wiggins, GA	Expectation in melody: The influence of context and learning	MUSIC PERCEPTION	THE IMPLICATION-REALIZATION (IR) theory (Narmour, 1990) posits two cognitive systems involved in the generation of melodic expectations: The first consists of a limited number of symbolic rules that are held to be innate and universal; the second reflects the top-down influences of acquired stylistic knowledge. Aspects of both systems have been implemented as quantitative models in research which has yielded empirical support for both components of the theory (Cuddy & Lunny, 1995; Krumhansl, 1995a, 1995b; Schellenberg, 1996, 1997). However, there is also evidence that the implemented bottom-up rules constitute too inflexible a model to account for the influence of the musical experience of the listener and the melodic context in which expectations are elicited. A theory is presented, according to which both bottom-up and top-down descriptions of observed patterns of melodic expectation may be accounted for in terms of the induction of statistical regularities in existing musical repertoires. A computational model that embodies this theory is developed and used to reanalyze existing experimental data on melodic expectancy. The results of three experiments with increasingly complex melodic stimuli demonstrate that this model is capable of accounting for listeners' expectations as well as or better than the two-factor model of Schellenberg (1997).
918	symbolic	2005	Uhlhaas, PJ; Silverstein, SM	Perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders: Empirical research and theoretical implications	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	The research into perceptual organization in schizophrenia spectrum disorders has found evidence for and against a perceptual organization deficit and has interpreted the data from within several different theoretical frameworks. A synthesis of this evidence, however, reveals that this body of work has produced reliable evidence for deficits in schizophrenia, as well as for the clinical, stimulus, and task parameters associated with normal and abnormal performance. Recent models of cognition have also advanced understanding of the underlying pathophysiological processes of perceptual organization dysfunction in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. These suggest that deficits in perceptual organization may be one manifestation of a wider disturbance in the integration of contextually related information across space and time.
919	symbolic	2004	West, R	The effects of aging on controlled attention and conflict processing in the Stroop task	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Recent computational modeling and behavioral work indicate that age-related declines in the ability to represent task context may contribute to disruptions of working memory and selective attention in older adults. However, it is unclear whether age-related declines in context processing arise from a disruption of the encoding or maintenance of task context and how age-related declines in context processing interact with mechanisms supporting conflict detection and resolution processes contributing to efficient selection of task-relevant information. This study examines the effects of aging on the neural correlates of context and conflict processing in the Stroop task using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Age-related differences in the time course of modulations of the ERPs associated with encoding (P3) and maintaining (slow wave) task context were observed. There were also age-related differences in the N450, conflict SP, and ERN associated with conflict processing that interacted with task context. These data indicate that aging is associated with declines in the efficiency of those neural mechanisms supporting both context and conflict processing, and that the effects of aging are not pervasive but rather interact with task context.
920	symbolic	2001	Best, PJ; White, AM; Minai, A	Spatial processing in the brain: The activity of hippocampal place cells	ANNUAL REVIEW OF NEUROSCIENCE	The startling discovery by O'Keefe & Dostrovsky (Brain Res. 1971; 34: 171-75) that hippocampal neurons fire selectively in different regions or "place fields" of an environment and the subsequent development of the comprehensive theory by O'Keefe & Nadel (The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map. Oxford, UK: Clarendon, 1978) that the hippocampus serves as a cognitive map have stimulated a substantial body of literature on the characteristics of hippocampal "place cells" and their relevance for our understanding of the mechanisms by which the brain processes spatial information. This paper reviews the major dimensions of the empirical research on place-cell activity and the development of computational models to explain various characteristics of place fields.
921	symbolic	2013	Deco, G; Jirsa, VK; McIntosh, AR	Resting brains never rest: computational insights into potential cognitive architectures	TRENDS IN NEUROSCIENCES	Resting-state networks (RSNs), which have become a main focus in neuroimaging research, can be best simulated by large-scale cortical models in which networks teeter on the edge of instability. In this state, the functional networks are in a low firing stable state while they are continuously pulled towards multiple other configurations. Small extrinsic perturbations can shape task-related network dynamics, whereas perturbations from intrinsic noise generate excursions reflecting the range of available functional networks. This is particularly advantageous for the efficiency and speed of network mobilization. Thus, the resting state reflects the dynamical capabilities of the brain, which emphasizes the vital interplay of time and space. In this article, we propose a new theoretical framework for RSNs that can serve as a fertile ground for empirical testing.
922	symbolic	2007	Kirwan, CB; Stark, CEL	Overcoming interference: An fMRI investigation of pattern separation in the medial temporal lobe	LEARNING & MEMORY	The medial temporal lobe (MTL) supports the formation and retrieval of long-term declarative memories, or memories for facts and everyday events. One challenge posed for this type of memory stems from the highly overlapping nature of common episodes. Within cognitive psychology, it is widely accepted that interference between information learned at different times is a major limitation on memory. In spite of several decades of intense research in the fields of interference theory and the neurobiological underpinnings of declarative memory, there is little direct evidence bearing on how the MTL resolves this interference to form accurate memories of everyday facts and events. Computational models of MTL function have proposed a mechanism in which the MTL, specifically the hippocampus, performs pattern separation, whereby overlapping representations are made less similar. However, there is little evidence bearing on how this process is carried out in the intact human MTL. Using high-resolution fMRI, we conducted a set of experiments that taxed behavioral pattern separation by using highly similar, interfering stimuli in a modified continuous recognition task. Regions within the parahippocampal gyrus demonstrated activity consistent with a "recall to reject" strategy. In contrast and critical to performing the task, activity within the hippocampus distinguished between correctly identified true stimulus repetitions, correctly rejected presentations of similar lure stimuli, and false alarms to similar lures. These data support the computational models' assertion that the hippocampus plays a key role in pattern separation.
923	symbolic	2005	Nieuwenhuis, S; Gilzenrat, MS; Holmes, BD; Cohen, JD	The role of the locus coeruleus in mediating the attentional blink: A neurocomputational theory	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-GENERAL	The attentional blink refers to the transient impairment in perceiving the 2nd of 2 targets presented in close temporal proximity. In this article, the authors propose a neurobiological mechanism for this effect. The authors extend a recently developed computational model of the potentiating influence of the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine system on information processing and hypothesize that a reftactoriness in the function of this system may account for the attentional blink. The model accurately simulates the time course of the attentional blink, including Lag 1 sparing. The theory also offers an account of the close relationship of the attentional blink to the electrophysiological P3 component. The authors report results from two behavioral experiments that support a critical prediction of their theory regarding the time course of Lag 1 sparing. Finally, the relationship between the authors' neurocomputational theory and existing cognitive theories of the attentional blink is discussed.
924	symbolic	2000	Arbib, MA; Billard, A; Iacoboni, M; Oztop, E	Synthetic brain imaging: grasping, mirror neurons and imitation	NEURAL NETWORKS	The article contributes to the quest to relate global data on brain and behavior (e.g. from PET, Positron Emission Tomography, and fMRI. functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to the underpinning neural networks. Models tied to human brain imaging data often focus on a few "boxes" based on brain regions associated with exceptionally high blood flow, rather than analyzing the cooperative computation of multiple brain regions. For analysis directly at the level of such data, a schema-based model may be most appropriate. To further address neurophysiological data, the Synthetic PET imaging method uses computational models of biological neural circuitry based on animal data to predict and analyze the results of human PET studies. This technique makes use of the hypothesis that rCBF (regional cerebral blood Row) is correlated with the integrated synaptic activity in a localized brain region. We also describe the possible extension of the Synthetic PET method to fMRI. The second half of the paper then exemplifies this general research program with two case studies, one on visuo-motor processing for control of grasping (Section 3 in which the focus is on Synthetic PET) and the imitation of motor skills (Sections 4 and 5, with a focus on Synthetic fMRI). Our discussion of imitation pays particular attention to data on the mirror system in monkey (neural circuitry which allows the brain to recognize actions as well as execute them). Finally, Section 6 outlines the immense challenges in integrating models of different portions of the nervous system which address derailed neurophysiological data from studies of primates and other species; summarizes key issues for developing the methodology of Synthetic Brain Imaging; and shows how comparative neuroscience and evolutionary arguments will allow us to extend Synthetic Brain Imaging even to language and other cognitive functions for which few or no animal data are available. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
925	symbolic	2002	Jones, AD; Cho, RY; Nystrom, LE; Cohen, JD; Braver, TS	A computational model of anterior cingulate function in speeded response tasks: Effects of frequency, sequence, and conflict	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	A growing body of evidence from functional neuroimaging and computational modeling studies indicates that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) detects the presence of response conflict and conveys this information to other brain regions, enabling subsequent adjustments in cognitive control. The present study examined previous empirical findings of increased ACC for low-frequency stimuli across three distinct speeded response tasks (two-alternative forced choice, go/no-go, and oddball). Simulations conducted in a neural network model incorporating sequential priming mechanisms (developed in Cho et al., 2002) confirmed that a computational measure of response conflict was higher on low-frequency trials across all three tasks. In addition, the model captured detailed aspects of behavioral reaction time and accuracy data, predicted the dynamics of ACC activity related to trial sequence effects, and provided evidence for the functional role of conflict information in performance monitoring and optimization. The results indicate that the conflict-monitoring hypothesis, augmented by mechanisms for encoding stimulus history, can explain key phenomena associated with performance in sequential speeded response tasks.
926	symbolic	2002	Pothos, EM; Chater, N	A simplicity principle in unsupervised human categorization	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	We address the problem of predicting how people will spontaneously divide into groups a set of novel items. This is a process akin to perceptual organization. We therefore employ the simplicity principle from perceptual organization to propose a simplicity model of unconstrained spontaneous grouping. The simplicity model predicts that people would prefer the categories for a set of novel items that provide the simplest encoding of these items. Classification predictions are derived from the model without information either about the number of categories sought or information about the distributional properties of the objects to be classified. These features of the simplicity model distinguish it from other models in unsupervised categorization (where, for example, the number of categories sought is determined via a free parameter), and we discuss how these computational differences are related to differences in modeling objectives. The predictions of the simplicity model are validated in four experiments. We also discuss the significance of simplicity in cognitive modeling more generally. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
927	symbolic	2004	Lucas, C; Shahmirzadi, D; Sheikholeslami, N	Introducing BELBIC: Brain emotional learning based intelligent controller	INTELLIGENT AUTOMATION AND SOFT COMPUTING	Modeling emotions has attracted much attention in recent years, both in cognitive psychology and design of artificial systems. Far from being a negative factor in decision making, emotions have shown to be a strong faculty for making fast satisfying decisions. In this paper, we have adapted a computational model based on the limbic system in the mammalian brain for control engineering applications. We applied the proposed controller (termed BELBIC) for some SISO, MIMO and nonlinear systems. Our results demonstrate excellent control action, disturbance handling and system parameter robustness for BELBIC.
928	symbolic	1995	KRAKAUER, DC	GROUPS CONFUSE PREDATORS BY EXPLOITING PERCEPTUAL BOTTLENECKS - A CONNECTIONIST MODEL OF THE CONFUSION EFFECT	BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY AND SOCIOBIOLOGY	Aggregation is a well documented behaviour in a number of animal groups. The ''confusion effect'' is one mechanism thought to mitigate the success of predators feeding on gregarious prey and hence favour aggregation. An artificial neural network model of prey targeting is developed to explore the advantages prey species might derive through a tendency to group. The network illustrates how an abstract model of the computational mechanisms mediating the perception of prey position is able to show a degradation in performance as group size increases. The relationship between group size and predator confusion has a characteristic decreasing decelerating shape. Prey ''oddity'' is shown to reduce the impact of the confusion effect, thereby allowing predators to target prey more accurately. Hence shoaling behaviour is most profitable to the prey when prey phenotypes are visually indistinguishable to a predator. Futhermore it is shown that prey ''oddity'' is relatively more costly in large groups than in small groups and the implications for assortative schooling are discussed. Both the model and the results are intended to make the general point that cognitive constraints will limit the information that a nervous system can process at a number of different levels of neural organization.
929	symbolic	2007	Barber, HA; Kutas, M	Interplay between computational models and cognitive electrophysiology in visual word recognition	BRAIN RESEARCH REVIEWS	In this article, we discuss the relevance of electrophysiological data to the enterprise of analyzing and understanding the reading process. Specifically, we detail how the event-related brain potential (ERP) technique (and its magnetic counterpart) can aid in development of models of visual word recognition. Any viable and accurate account of reading must take into account the temporal and anatomical constraints imposed by the fact that reading is a human brain function. We believe that neurophysiological (especially, although not limited to electrophysiological) data can serve an essential reference in the development of biologically realistic models of reading. We assess just how well extant electrophysiological data comport with specific predictions of existing computational models and offer some suggestions for the kinds of research that can address some of the remaining open questions. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
930	symbolic	2006	Larson, CL; Schaefer, HS; Siegle, GJ; Jackson, CAB; Anderle, MJ; Davidson, RJ	Fear is fast in phobic individuals: Amygdala activation in response to fear-relevant stimuli	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background. Two core characteristics of pathologic fear are its rapid onset and resistance to cognitive regulation. We hypothesized that activation of the amygdala early in the presentation of fear-relevant visual stimuli would distinguish phobics from nonphobics. Methods: Chronometry of amygdala activation to phobia-relevant pictures was assessed in 13 spider phobics and 14 nonphobics using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Results. Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses in the amygdala early in picture processing consistently differentiated between phobic and nonphobic subjects, as well as between phobogenic and nonphobogenic stimuli among phobics. Furthermore, amygdalar BOLD responses associated with timing but not magnitude of activation predicted affective responses to phobogenic stimuli. Computational modeling procedures were used to identify patterns of neural activation in the amygdala that could yield the observed BOLD data. These data suggest that phobic responses were characterized by strong but brief amygdala responses, whereas nonphobic responses were weaker and more sustained. Conclusions: Results are discussed in the context of the amygdala's role in rapid threat detection and the vigilance-avoidance hypothesis of anxiety. These data highlight the importance of examining the neural substrates of the immediate impact of phobogenic stimuli for understanding pathological fear.
931	symbolic	2006	De Pisapia, N; Braver, TS	A model of dual control mechanisms through anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortex interactions	NEUROCOMPUTING	A computational model is presented that describes dual mechanisms of cognitive control through interactions between the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). One mechanism, reactive control, consists in the transient activation of PFC, based on conflict detected in ACC over a short time-scale. The second mechanism, proactive control, consists in the sustained active maintenance of task-set information in a separate PFC module, driven by long time-scale conflict detected in a separate ACC unit. The computational function of the first mechanism is to suppress the activation of task-irrelevant information just prior to when it could interfere with responding. The role of the second mechanism is to prime task-relevant processing pathways prior to stimulus-onset, in a preparatory fashion. The model provided an excellent fit to both the behavioral and brain imaging data from a previous detailed empirical study on humans performing the color-word version of the Stroop task. The model captured changes in reaction times across conditions, accuracy, and transient and sustained activity dynamics within lateral PFC and ACC. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
932	symbolic	2008	Omicini, A; Ricci, A; Viroli, M	Artifacts in the A&A meta-model for multi-agent systems	AUTONOMOUS AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS	In this article we focus on the notion of artifact for agents in multi-agent systems (MAS) as a basis for a new meta-model promoting the modelling and engineering of agent societies and MAS environment as first-class entities. Its conceptual foundations lay upon theories and results coming from computational sciences as well as from organisational and cognitive sciences, psychology, computer supported cooperative work (CSCW), anthropology and ethology. In the resulting agents & artifacts (A&A) meta-model, agents are the (pro-)active entities in charge of the goals/tasks that altogether build up the whole MAS behaviour, whereas artifacts are the reactive entities providing the services and functions that make individual agents work together in a MAS, and that shape agent environment according to the MAS needs. After presenting the scientific background, we define the notions of artifact in the A&A meta-model, discuss how it affects the notion of intelligence in MAS, and show its application to a number of agent-related research fields.
933	symbolic	1994	AMIT, DJ; BRUNEL, N; TSODYKS, MV	CORRELATIONS OF CORTICAL HEBBIAN REVERBERATIONS - THEORY VERSUS EXPERIMENT	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Interpreting recent single-unit recordings of delay activities in delayed match-to-sample experiments in anterior ventral temporal (AVT) cortex of monkeys in terms of reverberation dynamics, we present a model neural network of quasi-realistic elements that reproduces the empirical results in great detail. Information about the contiguity of successive stimuli in the training sequence, representing the fact that training is done on a set of uncorrelated stimuli presented in a fixed temporal sequence, is embedded in the synaptic structure. The model reproduces quite accurately the correlations between delay activity distributions corresponding to stimulation with the uncorrelated stimuli used for training. It reproduces also the activity distributions of spike rates on sample cells as a function of the stimulating pattern. It is, in our view, the first time that a computational phenomenon, represented on the neurophysiological level, is reproduced in all its quantitative aspects. The model is then used to make predictions about further features of the physiology of such experiments. Those include further properties of the correlations, features of selective cells as discriminators of stimuli provoking different delay activity distributions, and activity distributions among the neurons in a delay activity produced by a given pattern. The model has predictive implications also for the dependence of the delay activities on different training protocols. Finally, we discuss the perspectives of the interplay between such models and neurophysiology as well as its limitations and possible extensions.
934	symbolic	2002	Tyler, LK; deMornay-Davies, P; Anokhina, R; Longworth, C; Randall, B; Marslen-Wilson, WD	Dissociations in processing past tense morphology: Neuropathology and behavioral studies	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Neuropsychological research showing that the regular ("jump-jumped'') and irregular ("drive/drove'') past tense inflectional morphology can dissociate following brain damage has been important in testing claims about the cognitive and neural status of linguistic rules. These dissociations have been interpreted as evidence for two different computational systems-a rule-based system underlying the processing of regulars and the irregulars being individually listed in the mental lexicon. In contrast, connectionist accounts claim that these dissociations can be modeled within a single system. Combining behavioral data from patients with detailed information about their neuropathology can, in principle, provide strong constraints on accounts of the past tense. In this study, we tested five nonfluent aphasic patients, all of whom had extensive left hemisphere (LH) damage involving the left inferior frontal gyrus and underlying structures, and four patients with semantic deficits following herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) who had extensive damage to the inferior temporal cortex. These patients were tested in experiments probing past tense processing. In a large priming study, the nonfluent patients showed no priming for the regular past tense but significant priming for the irregulars (whereas controls show priming for both). In contrast, the HSE patients showed significantly impaired performance for the irregulars in an elicitation task. These patterns of behavioral data and neuropathology suggest that two separable but interdependent systems underlie processing of the regular and irregular past tense.
935	symbolic	2006	Reichle, ED; Pollatsek, A; Rayner, K	E-Z Reader: A cognitive-control, serial-attention model of eye-movement behavior during reading	COGNITIVE SYSTEMS RESEARCH	The two core assumptions of the E - Z Reader model of eye-movement control during reading are that: ( 1) a preliminary stage of lexical access (i.e., the familiarity check) triggers the initiation of a saccadic program to move the eyes from one word to the next; and ( 2) attention is allocated serially, to one word at a time. This paper provides an overview of the model, some of the research that motivated its assumptions, and the various reading-related phenomena that the model can account for. This paper also summarizes how the model has been and is currently being used to guide empirical research. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
936	symbolic	1994	KEANE, MT; LEDGEWAY, T; DUFF, S	CONSTRAINTS ON ANALOGICAL MAPPING - A COMPARISON OF 3 MODELS	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	Three theories of analogy have been proposed that are supported by computational models and data from experiments on human analogical abilities.  In this article we show how these theories can be unified within a common metatheoretical framework that distinguishes among levels of informational, behavioral, and hardware constraints.  This framework clarifies the distinctions among three computational models in the literature:  the Analogical Constraint Mapping Engine (ACME), the Structure-Mapping Engine (SME), and the Incremental Analogy Machine (IAM).  We then go on to develop a methodology for the comparative testing of these models.  In two different manipulations of an analogical mapping task we compare the results of computational experiments with these these models against the results of psychological experiments.  In the first experiment we show that increasing the number of similar elements in two analogical domains decreases the response time taken to reach the correct mapping for an analogy problem.  In the second psychological experiment we find that the order in which the elements of the two domains are presented has significant facilitative effects on the ease of analogical mapping.  Of the three models, only IAM embodies behavioral constraints and predicts both of these results.  Finally, the immediate implications of these results for analogy research are discussed, along with the wider implications the research has for cognitive science methodology.
937	symbolic	2010	Helie, S; Sun, R	Incubation, Insight, and Creative Problem Solving: A Unified Theory and a Connectionist Model	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	This article proposes a unified framework for understanding creative problem solving, namely, the explicit implicit interaction theory. This new theory of creative problem solving constitutes an attempt at providing a more unified explanation of relevant phenomena (in part by reinterpreting/integrating various fragmentary existing theories of incubation and insight). The explicit implicit interaction theory relies mainly on 5 basic principles, namely, (a) the coexistence of and the difference between explicit and implicit knowledge, (b) the simultaneous involvement of implicit and explicit processes in most tasks, (c) the redundant representation of explicit and implicit knowledge, (d) the integration of the results of explicit and implicit processing, and (e) the iterative (and possibly bidirectional) processing. A computational implementation of the theory is developed based on the CLARION cognitive architecture and applied to the simulation of relevant human data. This work represents an initial step in the development of process-based theories of creativity encompassing incubation, insight, and various other related phenomena.
938	symbolic	2007	Blais, C; Robidoux, S; Risko, EF; Besner, D	Item-specific adaptation and the conflict-monitoring hypothesis: A computational model	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	M. M. Botvinick, T. S. Braver, D. M. Barch, C. S. Carter, and J. D. Cohen (2001) implemented their conflict-monitoring hypothesis of cognitive control in a series of computational models. The authors of the current article first demonstrate that M. M. Borvinick et al.'s (2001) conflict-monitoring Stroop model fails to simulate L. L. Jacoby, D. S. Lindsay, and S. Hessels's (2003) report of an item-specific proportion-congruent (ISPC) effect in the Stroop task. The authors then implement a variant of M. M. Botvinick et al.'s model based on the assumption that control must be able to operate at the item level. This model successfully simulates the ISPC effect. In addition, the model provides an alternative to M. M. Botvinick et al.'s explanation of the list-level proportion-congruent effect in terms of an ISPC effect. Implications of the present modeling effort are discussed.
939	symbolic	2007	Cunningham, WA; Zelazo, PD; Packer, DJ; Van Bavel, JJ	The iterative reprocessing model: A multilevel framework for attitudes and evaluation	SOCIAL COGNITION	Dual-process models of attitudes highlight the fact that evaluative processes are complex and multifaceted. Nevertheless, many of these models typically neglect important interactions among processes that can contribute to an evaluation. In this article, we propose a multilevel model informed by neuroscience in which current evaluations are constructed from relatively stable attitude representations through the iterative reprocessing of information. Whereas initial iterations provide relatively quick and dirty evaluations, additional iterations accompanied by reflective processes yield more nuanced evaluations and allow for phenomena such as ambivalence. importantly, this model predicts that the processes underlying relatively automatic evaluations continue to be engaged across multiple iterations, and that they influence and are influenced by more reflective processes. We describe the Iterative Reprocessing Model at the computational, algorithmic, and implementational levels of analysis (Marr, 1982) to more fully characterize its premises and predictions.
940	symbolic	2005	Johnson, MH; Munakata, Y	Processes of change in brain and cognitive development	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	We review recent advances in the understanding of the mechanisms of change that underlie cognitive development. We begin by describing error-driven, self-organizing and constructivist learning systems. These powerful mechanisms can be constrained by intrinsic factors, other brain systems and/or the physical and social environment of the developing child. The results of constrained learning are representations that themselves are transformed during development. One type of transformation involves the increasing specialization and localization of representations, resulting in a neurocognitive system with more dissociated streams of processing with complementary computational functions. In human development, integration between such streams of processing might occur through the mediation of language.
941	symbolic	2002	Yu, AJ; Dayan, P	Acetylcholine in cortical inference	NEURAL NETWORKS	Acetylcholine (ACh) plays an important role in a wide variety of cognitive tasks, such as perception, selective attention, associative learning, and memory. Extensive experimental and theoretical work in tasks involving learning and memory has suggested that ACh reports on unfamiliarity and controls plasticity and effective network connectivity. Based on these computational and implementational insights, we develop a theory of cholinergic modulation in perceptual inference. We propose that ACh levels reflect the uncertainty associated with top-down information, and have the effect of modulating the interaction between top-down and bottom-up processing in determining the appropriate neural representations for inputs. We illustrate our proposal by means of an hierarchical hidden Markov model, showing that cholinergic modulation of contextual information leads to appropriate perceptual inference. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
942	symbolic	1994	RICKARD, TC; HEALY, AF; BOURNE, LE	ON THE COGNITIVE STRUCTURE OF BASIC ARITHMETIC SKILLS - OPERATION, ORDER, AND SYMBOL TRANSFER EFFECTS	JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY-LEARNING MEMORY AND COGNITION	In 2 experiments, college Ss practiced extensively on single-digit multiplication and division problems (e.g., }}}} = 6 x 9; 42 = }}}} x 6) and were tested on both practice problems and several altered versions of those problems, which were constructed by changing the required operation, operand order, or arithmetic symbol.  There was strong positive transfer to test problems that had exactly the same elements (the numbers and the required operation) as a practice problem, regardless of whether other factors such as operand order or symbol were changed, but little if any positive transfer to test problems that did not have the same elements as a practice problem.  An identical elements framework is used to interpret these results and implications for existing computational models of arithmetic fact retrieval and for the development of arithmetic skill are discussed.
943	symbolic	2012	Gopnik, A; Wellman, HM	Reconstructing Constructivism: Causal Models, Bayesian Learning Mechanisms, and the Theory Theory	PSYCHOLOGICAL BULLETIN	We propose a new version of the "theory theory" grounded in the computational framework of probabilistic causal models and Bayesian learning. Probabilistic models allow a constructivist but rigorous and detailed approach to cognitive development. They also explain the learning of both more specific causal hypotheses and more abstract framework theories. We outline the new theoretical ideas, explain the computational framework in an intuitive and nontechnical way, and review an extensive but relatively recent body of empirical results that supports these ideas. These include new studies of the mechanisms of learning. Children infer causal structure from statistical information, through their own actions on the world and through observations of the actions of others. Studies demonstrate these learning mechanisms in children from 16 months to 4 years old and include research on causal statistical learning, informal experimentation through play, and imitation and informal pedagogy. They also include studies of the variability and progressive character of intuitive theory change, particularly theory of mind. These studies investigate both the physical and the psychological and social domains. We conclude with suggestions for further collaborative projects between developmental and computational cognitive scientists.
944	symbolic	2001	Byrne, MD; Anderson, JR	Serial modules in parallel: The psychological refractory period and perfect time-sharing	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	The authors describe ACT-R/perceptual-motor (ACT-R/PM), an integrated theory of cognition, perception, and action that consists of the ACT-R production system and a set of perceptual-motor modules. Each module (including cognition) is essentially serial, but modules run in parallel with one another. ACT-R/PM can model simple dual tasks such as the psychological refractory period (PRP), including subtle results previously explained with executive process interactive control (EPIC, D. E. Meyer & D. E. Kieras, 1997a). The central difference between the theories is that EPIC's productions can fire in parallel, whereas in ACT-R/PM, they are serial. Results from three PRP-like experiments with more demanding cognitive requirements indicate that cognitive processing for the 2 tasks need not overlap. ACT-R's activation-based retrieval processes are critical in accounting for the timing of these tasks and for explaining the dual-task performance decrement.
945	symbolic	2010	Nuthmann, A; Smith, TJ; Engbert, R; Henderson, JM	CRISP: A Computational Model of Fixation Durations in Scene Viewing	PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW	Eye-movement control during scene viewing can be represented as a series of individual decisions about where and when to move the eyes. While substantial behavioral and computational research has been devoted to investigating the placement of fixations in scenes, relatively little is known about the mechanisms that control fixation durations. Here, we propose a computational model (CRISP) that accounts for saccade timing and programming and thus for variations in fixation durations in scene viewing. First, timing signals are modeled as continuous-time random walks. Second. difficulties at the level of visual and cognitive processing can inhibit and thus modulate saccade timing. Inhibition generates moment-by-moment changes in the random walk's transition rate and processing-related saccade cancellation. Third, saccade programming is completed in 2 stages: an initial, labile stage that is subject to cancellation and a subsequent. nonlabile stage. Several simulation studies tested the model's adequacy and generality. An initial simulation study explored the role of cognitive factors in scene viewing by examining how fixation durations differed under different viewing task instructions. Additional simulations investigated the degree to which fixation durations were under direct moment-to-moment control of the current visual scene. The present work further supports the conclusion that fixation durations, to a certain degree, reflect perceptual and cognitive activity in scene viewing. Computational model simulations contribute to an understanding of the underlying processes of gaze control.
946	symbolic	2008	Moustafa, AA; Sherman, SJ; Frank, MJ	A dopaminergic basis for working memory, learning and attentional shifting in Parkinsonism	NEUROPSYCHOLOGIA	Parkinson's disease (PD) patients exhibit cognitive deficits, including reinforcement learning, working memory (WM) and set shifting. Computational models of the basal ganglia-frontal system posit similar mechanisms for these deficits in terms of reduced dynamic range of striatal dopamine (DA) signals in both medicated and non-medicated states. Here, we report results from the first study that tests PD patients on and off dopaminergic medications in a modified version of the AX continuous performance (AX-CPT) working memory task, consisting of three performance phases and one phase requiring WM associations to be learned via reinforcement feedback. Patients generally showed impairments relative to controls. Medicated patients showed deficits specifically when having to ignore distracting stimuli during the delay. Our models suggest that this impairment is due to medication causing excessive WM updating by enhancing striatal "Go" signals that facilitate such updating, while concurrently suppressing "NoGo" signals. In contrast, patients off medication showed deficits consistent with an overall reduction in striatal DA and associated Go updating signals. Supporting this dichotomy, patients on and off medication both showed attentional shifting deficits, but for different reasons. Deficits in non-medicated patients were consistent with an inability to update the new attentional set, whereas those in medicated patients were evident when having to ignore distractors that had previously been task relevant. Finally, in the feedback-based WM phase, medicated patients were better than unmedicated patients, suggesting a key role of striatal DA in using feedback to update information into WM. These results lend further insight into the role of basal ganglia dopamine in WM and broadly support predictions from neurocomputational models. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
947	symbolic	2007	Brown, JW; Braver, TS	Risk prediction and aversion by anterior cingulate cortex	COGNITIVE AFFECTIVE & BEHAVIORAL NEUROSCIENCE	The recently proposed error-likelihood hypothesis suggests that anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and surrounding areas will become active in proportion to the perceived likelihood of an error. The hypothesis was originally derived from a computational model prediction. The same computational model now makes a further prediction that ACC will be sensitive not only to predicted error likelihood, but also to the predicted magnitude of the consequences, should an error occur. The product of error likelihood and predicted error consequence magnitude collectively defines the general "expected risk" of a given behavior in a manner analogous but orthogonal to subjective expected utility theory. New fMRI results from an incentive change signal task now replicate the error-likelihood effect, validate the further predictions of the computational model, and suggest why some segments of the population may fail to show an effor-likelihood effect. In particular, error-likelihood effects and expected risk effects in general indicate greater sensitivity to earlier predictors of errors and are seen in risk-averse but not risk-tolerant individuals. Taken together, the results are consistent with an expected risk model of ACC and suggest that ACC may generally contribute to cognitive control by recruiting brain activity to avoid risk.
948	symbolic	2005	Adeli, H; Ghosh-Dastidar, S; Dadmehr, N	Alzheimer's disease: Models of computation and analysis of EEGs	CLINICAL EEG AND NEUROSCIENCE	In a recent article the authors presented a comprehensive review of research performed on computational modeling of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its markers with a focus on computer imaging, classification models, connectionist neural models, and biophysical neural models. The popularity of imaging techniques for detection and diagnosis of possible AD stems from the relative ease with which neurological markers can be converted to visual markers. However, due to the expense of specialized experts and equipment involved in the use of imaging techniques, a subject of significant research interest is detecting markers in EEGs obtained from AD patients. In this article, the authors present a state-of-the-art review of models of computation and analysis of EEGs for diagnosis and detection of AD. This review covers three areas: time-frequency analysis, wavelet analysis, and chaos analysis. The vast number of physiological parameters involved in the poorly understood processes responsible for AD yields a large combination of parameters that can be manipulated and studied. A combination of parameters from different investigation modalities seems to be more effective in increasing the accuracy of detection and diagnosis.
949	symbolic	2004	Chambers, RA; Potenza, MN; Hoffman, RE; Miranker, W	Simulated apoptosis/neurogenesis regulates learning and memory capabilities of adaptive neural networks	NEUROPSYCHOPHARMACOLOGY	Characterization of neuronal death and neurogenesis in the adult brain of birds, humans, and other mammals raises the possibility that neuronal turnover represents a special form of neuroplasticity associated with stress responses, cognition, and the pathophysiology and treatment of psychiatric disorders. Multilayer neural network models capable of learning alphabetic character representations via incremental synaptic connection strength changes were used to assess additional learning and memory effects incurred by simulation of coordinated apoptotic and neurogenic events in the middle layer. Using a consistent incremental learning capability across all neurons and experimental conditions, increasing the number of middle layer neurons undergoing turnover increased network learning capacity for new information, and increased forgetting of old information. Simulations also showed that specific patterns of neural turnover based on individual neuronal connection characteristics, or the temporal-spatial pattern of neurons chosen for turnover during new learning impacts new learning performance. These simulations predict that apoptotic and neurogenic events could act together to produce specific learning and memory effects beyond those provided by ongoing mechanisms of connection plasticity in neuronal populations. Regulation of rates as well as patterns of neuronal turnover may serve an important function in tuning the informatic properties of plastic networks according to novel informational demands. Analogous regulation in the hippocampus may provide for adaptive cognitive and emotional responses to novel and stressful contexts, or operate suboptimally as a basis for psychiatric disorders. The implications of these elementary simulations for future biological and neural modeling research on apoptosis and neurogenesis are discussed.
950	symbolic	2010	Shams, L; Beierholm, UR	Causal inference in perception	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	Until recently, the question of how the brain performs causal inference has been studied primarily in the context of cognitive reasoning. However, this problem is at least equally crucial in perceptual processing. At any given moment, the perceptual system receives multiple sensory signals within and across modalities and, for example, has to determine the source of each of these signals. Recently, a growing number of studies from various fields of cognitive science have started to address this question and have converged to very similar computational models. Therefore, it seems that a common computational strategy, which is highly consistent with a normative model of causal inference, is exploited by the perceptual system in a variety of domains.
951	symbolic	2004	Atallah, HE; Frank, MJ; O'Reilly, RC	Hippocampus, cortex, and basal ganglia: Insights from computational models of complementary learning systems	NEUROBIOLOGY OF LEARNING AND MEMORY	We present a framework for understanding how the hippocampus, neocortex, and basal ganglia work together to support cognitive and behavioral function in the mammalian brain. This framework is based on computational tradeoffs that arise in neural network models, where achieving one type of learning function requires very different parameters from those necessary to achieve another form of learning. For example, we dissociate the hippocampus from cortex with respect to general levels of activity, learning rate, and level of overlap between activation patterns. Similarly, the frontal cortex and associated basal ganglia system have important neural specializations not required of the posterior cortex system. Taken together, this overall cognitive architecture, which has been implemented in functioning computational models, provides a rich and often subtle means of explaining a wide range of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience data. Here, we summarize recent results in the domains of recognition memory, contextual fear conditioning, effects of basal ganglia lesions on stimulus-response and place learning, and flexible responding. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
952	symbolic	1998	Samuels, R	Evolutionary psychology and the massive modularity hypothesis	BRITISH JOURNAL FOR THE PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE	In recent years evolutionary psychologists have developed and defended the Massive Modularity Hypothesis, which maintains that our cognitive architecture-including the part that subserves 'central processing'-is largely or perhaps even entirely composed of innate, domain-specific computational mechanisms or 'modules'. In this paper I argue for two claims. First, I show that the two main arguments that evolutionary psychologists have offered for this general architectural thesis fail to provide us with any reason to prefer it to a competing picture of the mind which I call the Library Model of Cognition. Second, I argue that this alternative model is compatible with the central theoretical and methodological commitments of evolutionary psychology. Thus I argue that, at present, the endorsement of the Massive Modularity Hypothesis by evolutionary psychologists is both unwarranted and unmotivated.
953	symbolic	2011	Strauss, GP; Frank, MJ; Waltz, JA; Kasanova, Z; Herbener, ES; Gold, JM	Deficits in Positive Reinforcement Learning and Uncertainty-Driven Exploration Are Associated with Distinct Aspects of Negative Symptoms in Schizophrenia	BIOLOGICAL PSYCHIATRY	Background: Negative symptoms are core features of schizophrenia (SZ); however, the cognitive and neural basis for individual negative symptom domains remains unclear. Converging evidence suggests a role for striatal and prefrontal dopamine in reward learning and the exploration of actions that might produce outcomes that are better than the status quo. The current study examines whether deficits in reinforcement learning and uncertainty-driven exploration predict specific negative symptom domains. Methods: We administered a temporal decision-making task, which required trial-by-trial adjustment of reaction time to maximize reward receipt, to 51 patients with SZ and 39 age-matched healthy control subjects. Task conditions were designed such that expected value (probability X magnitude) increased, decreased, or remained constant with increasing response times. Computational analyses were applied to estimate the degree to which trial-by-trial responses are influenced by reinforcement history. Results: Individuals with SZ showed impaired Go learning but intact NoGo learning relative to control subjects. These effects were most pronounced in patients with higher levels of negative symptoms. Uncertainty-based exploration was substantially reduced in individuals with SZ and selectively correlated with clinical ratings of anhedonia. Conclusions: Schizophrenia patients, particularly those with high negative symptoms, failed to speed reaction times to increase positive outcomes and showed reduced tendency to explore when alternative actions could lead to better outcomes than the status quo. Results are interpreted in the context of current computational, genetic, and pharmacological data supporting the roles of striatal and prefrontal dopamine in these processes.
954	symbolic	2010	Frankemolle, AMM; Wu, J; Noecker, AM; Voelcker-Rehage, C; Ho, JC; Vitek, JL; McIntyre, CC; Alberts, JL	Reversing cognitive-motor impairments in Parkinson's disease patients using a computational modelling approach to deep brain stimulation programming	BRAIN	Deep brain stimulation in the subthalamic nucleus is an effective and safe surgical procedure that has been shown to reduce the motor dysfunction of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation, however, has been associated with declines in cognitive and cognitive-motor functioning. It has been hypothesized that spread of current to nonmotor areas of the subthalamic nucleus may be responsible for declines in cognitive and cognitive-motor functioning. The aim of this study was to assess the cognitive-motor performance in advanced Parkinson's disease patients with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation parameters determined clinically (Clinical) to settings derived from a patient-specific computational model (Model). Data were collected from 10 patients with advanced Parkinson's disease bilaterally implanted with subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation systems. These patients were assessed off medication and under three deep brain stimulation conditions: Off, Clinical or Model based stimulation. Clinical stimulation parameters had been determined based on clinical evaluations and were stable for at least 6 months prior to study participation. Model-based parameters were selected to minimize the spread of current to nonmotor portions of the subthalamic nucleus using Cicerone Deep Brain Stimulation software. For each stimulation condition, participants performed a working memory (n-back task) and motor task (force tracking) under single- and dual-task settings. During the dual-task, participants performed the n-back and force-tracking tasks simultaneously. Clinical and Model parameters were equally effective in improving the Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale III scores relative to Off deep brain stimulation scores. Single-task working memory declines, in the 2-back condition, were significantly less under Model compared with Clinical deep brain stimulation settings. Under dual-task conditions, force tracking was significantly better with Model compared with Clinical deep brain stimulation. In addition to better overall cognitive-motor performance associated with Model parameters, the amount of power consumed was on average less than half that used with the Clinical settings. These results indicate that the cognitive and cognitive-motor declines associated with bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation may be reversed, without compromising motor benefits, by using model-based stimulation parameters that minimize current spread into nonmotor regions of the subthalamic nucleus.
955	symbolic	2013	Otto, AR; Gershman, SJ; Markman, AB; Daw, ND	The Curse of Planning: Dissecting Multiple Reinforcement-Learning Systems by Taxing the Central Executive	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	A number of accounts of human and animal behavior posit the operation of parallel and competing valuation systems in the control of choice behavior. In these accounts, a flexible but computationally expensive model-based reinforcement-learning system has been contrasted with a less flexible but more efficient model-free reinforcement-learning system. The factors governing which system controls behavior-and under what circumstances-are still unclear. Following the hypothesis that model-based reinforcement learning requires cognitive resources, we demonstrated that having human decision makers perform a demanding secondary task engenders increased reliance on a model-free reinforcement-learning strategy. Further, we showed that, across trials, people negotiate the trade-off between the two systems dynamically as a function of concurrent executive-function demands, and people's choice latencies reflect the computational expenses of the strategy they employ. These results demonstrate that competition between multiple learning systems can be controlled on a trial-by-trial basis by modulating the availability of cognitive resources.
956	symbolic	2012	Wang, RS; Li, JG; Fang, HZ; Tian, MQ; Liu, J	Individual Differences in Holistic Processing Predict Face Recognition Ability	PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE	Why do some people recognize faces easily and others frequently make mistakes in recognizing faces? Classic behavioral work has shown that faces are processed in a distinctive holistic manner that is unlike the processing of objects. In the study reported here, we investigated whether individual differences in holistic face processing have a significant influence on face recognition. We found that the magnitude of face-specific recognition accuracy correlated with the extent to which participants processed faces holistically, as indexed by the composite-face effect and the whole-part effect. This association is due to face-specific processing in particular, not to a more general aspect of cognitive processing, such as general intelligence or global attention. This finding provides constraints on computational models of face recognition and may elucidate mechanisms underlying cognitive disorders, such as prosopagnosia and autism, that are associated with deficits in face recognition.
957	symbolic	2002	Furl, N; Phillips, PJ; O'Toole, AJ	Face recognition algorithms and the other-race effect: computational mechanisms for a developmental contact hypothesis	COGNITIVE SCIENCE	People recognize faces of their own race more accurately than faces of other races. The "contact" hypothesis suggests that this "other-race effect" occurs as a result of the greater experience we have with own- versus other-race faces. The computational mechanisms that may underlie different versions of the contact hypothesis were explored in this study. We replicated the other-race effect with human participants and evaluated four classes of computational face recognition algorithms for the presence of an other-race effect. Consistent with the predictions of a developmental contact hypothesis, "experience-based models" demonstrated an other-race effect only when the representational system was developed through experience that warped the perceptual space in a way that was sensitive to the overall structure of the model's experience with faces of different races. When the model's representation relied on a feature set optimized to encode the information in the learned faces, experience-based algorithms recognized minority-race faces more accurately than majority-race faces. The results suggest a developmental learning process that warps the perceptual space to enhance the encoding of distinctions relevant for own-race faces. This feature space limits the quality of face representations for other-race faces. (C) 2002 Cognitive Science Society, Inc. All rights reserved.
958	symbolic	2012	Beckmann, CF	Modelling with independent components	NEUROIMAGE	Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a computational technique for identifying hidden statistically independent sources from multivariate data. In its basic form, ICA decomposes a 2D data matrix (e.g. time x voxels) into separate components that have distinct characteristics. In FMRI it is used to identify hidden FMRI signals (such as activations). Since the first application of ICA to Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (FMRI) in 1998, this technique has developed into a powerful tool for data exploration in cognitive and clinical neurosciences. In this contribution to the commemorative issue 20 years of FMRI I will briefly describe the basic principles behind ICA, discuss the probabilistic extension to ICA and touch on what I think are some of the most notorious loose ends. Further, I will describe some of the most powerful 'killer' applications and finally share some thoughts on where I believe the most promising future developments will lie. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
959	symbolic	2008	Van Den Broek, P; Kendeou, P	Cognitive processes in comprehension of science texts: The role of co-activation in confronting misconceptions	APPLIED COGNITIVE PSYCHOLOGY	In this paper, we investigate the effects of readers' incorrect knowledge on the on-line comprehension processes during reading of science texts, with an eye towards examining the conditions that encourage revision of such knowledge. We employed computational (Landscape Model) and empirical (think-aloud and reading times) methods to compare comprehension processes by readers with correct and incorrect background knowledge, respectively. Science texts were presented in either regular or refutation versions; Prior research using off-line methods suggests that refutation versions promote revision in readers with incorrect knowledge. The results of the current study indicate that incorrect knowledge systematically influences both type and content of processing. Moreover, simultaneous activation of correct and incorrect conceptions during reading plays an essential role in knowledge revision: The computational simulations show that refutation texts create optimal circumstances for co-activation of the incorrect and correct conceptions and the empirical data show that such a co-activation is associated with inconsistency detection and revision activities by the readers with incorrect knowledge. These findings provide insights in the effects of misconceptions on the on-line text processing and have important implications for the development of methods for achieving revision during reading. Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Soils, Ltd.
960	symbolic	1997	Mathews, A; Mackintosh, B; Fulcher, ER	Cognitive biases in anxiety and attention to threat	TRENDS IN COGNITIVE SCIENCES	The existence of cognitive biases in anxiety is now well established, and we summarize evidence demonstrating attentional vigilance to cues associated with threat, pessimistic interpretation of ambiguous items and an increased perception of the likelihood of occurrence of negative events. We explore how these reactions can be understood within an evolutionary context, and present a descriptive model consistent with the experimental findings, conducive to modification of responses through learning. A computational implementation of aspects of the model successfully simulates changes in reaction time for a simple task as anxiety levels increase. Future directions include pursuing the causal nature of biases in anxiety and examining the potential for change through training techniques.
961	symbolic	2010	Avants, BB; Cook, PA; Ungar, L; Gee, JC; Grossman, M	Dementia induces correlated reductions in white matter integrity and cortical thickness: A multivariate neuroimaging study with sparse canonical correlation analysis	NEUROIMAGE	We use a new, unsupervised multivariate imaging and analysis strategy to identify related patterns of reduced white matter integrity, measured with the fractional anisotropy (FA) derived from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and decreases in cortical thickness, measured by high resolution T1-weighted imaging, in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). This process is based oil a novel computational model derived from sparse canonical correlation analysis (SCCA) that allows us to automatically identify Mutually predictive, distributed neuroanatomical regions from different imaging modalities. We apply the SCCA model to a dataset that includes 23 control subjects that are demographically matched to 49 subjects with autopsy or CSF-biomarker-diagnosed AD (n = 24) and FTD (n = 25) with both DTI and T1-weighted structural imaging. SCCA shows that the FTD-related frontal and temporal degeneration pattern is correlated across modalities with permutation corrected p<0.0005. In AD, we find significant association between cortical thinning and reduction in white matter integrity within a distributed parietal and temporal network (p<0.0005). Furthermore, we show that-within SCCA identified regions-significant differences exist between FTD and AD cortical-connective degeneration patterns. We validate these distinct, multimodal imaging patterns by showing unique relationships with cognitive measures in AD and FTD. We conclude that SCCA is a potentially valuable approach in image analysis that can be applied productively to distinguishing between neurodegenerative conditions. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
962	symbolic	2012	Delaherche, E; Chetouani, M; Mahdhaoui, A; Saint-Georges, C; Viaux, S; Cohen, D	Interpersonal Synchrony: A Survey of Evaluation Methods across Disciplines	IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AFFECTIVE COMPUTING	Synchrony refers to individuals' temporal coordination during social interactions. The analysis of this phenomenon is complex, requiring the perception and integration of multimodal communicative signals. The evaluation of synchrony has received multidisciplinary attention because of its role in early development, language learning, and social connection. Originally studied by developmental psychologists, synchrony has now captured the interest of researchers in such fields as social signal processing, robotics, and machine learning. This paper emphasizes the current questions asked by synchrony evaluation and the state-of-the-art related methods. First, we present definitions and functions of synchrony in youth and adulthood. Next, we review the noncomputational and computational approaches of annotating, evaluating, and modeling interactional synchrony. Finally, the current limitations and future research directions in the fields of developmental robotics, social robotics, and clinical studies are discussed.
963	symbolic	2011	Volman, V; Behrens, MM; Sejnowski, TJ	Downregulation of Parvalbumin at Cortical GABA Synapses Reduces Network Gamma Oscillatory Activity	JOURNAL OF NEUROSCIENCE	Postmortem and functional imaging studies of patients with psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, are consistent with a dysfunction of interneurons leading to compromised inhibitory control of network activity. Parvalbumin (PV)-expressing, fast-spiking interneurons interacting with pyramidal neurons generate cortical gamma oscillations (30-80 Hz) that synchronize cortical activity during cognitive processing. In postmortem studies of schizophrenia patients, these interneurons show reduced PV and glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67), an enzyme that synthesizes GABA, but the consequences of this downregulation are unclear. We developed a biophysically realistic and detailed computational model of a cortical circuit including asynchronous release from GABAergic interneurons to investigate how reductions in PV and GABA affect gamma oscillations induced by sensory stimuli. Networks with reduced GABA were disinhibited and had altered gamma oscillations in response to stimulation; PV-deficient GABA synapses had increased asynchronous release of GABA, which decreased the level of excitation and reduced gamma-band activity. Combined reductions of PV and GABA resulted in a diminished gamma-band oscillatory activity in response to stimuli, similar to that observed in schizophrenia patients. Our results suggest a mechanism by which reduced GAD67 and PV in fast-spiking interneurons may contribute to cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders.
964	symbolic	2008	Vierling-Claassen, D; Siekmeier, P; Stufflebeam, S; Kopell, N	Modeling GABA alterations in schizophrenia: A link between impaired inhibition and altered gamma and beta range auditory entrainment	JOURNAL OF NEUROPHYSIOLOGY	The disorganized symptoms of schizophrenia, including severely disordered thought patterns, may be indicative of a problem with the construction and maintenance of cell assemblies during sensory processing and attention. The gamma and beta frequency bands (15-70 Hz) are believed relevant to such processing. This paper addresses the results of an experimental examination of the cortical response of 12 schizophrenia patients and 12 control subjects when presented with auditory click-train stimuli in the gamma/beta frequency band during measurement using magnetoencephalography (MEG), as well as earlier work by Kwon et al. These data indicate that control subjects show an increased 40-Hz response to both 20-and 40-Hz stimulation as compared with patients, whereas schizophrenic subjects show a preference for 20-Hz response to the same driving frequencies. In this work, two computational models of the auditory cortex are constructed based on postmortem studies that indicate cortical interneurons in schizophrenic subjects have decreased GAT-1 (a GABA transporter) and GAD 67 (1 of 2 enzymes responsible for GABA synthesis). The models transition from control to schizophrenic frequency response when an extended inhibitory decay time is introduced; this change captures a possible effect of these GABA alterations. Modeling gamma/beta range auditory entrainment in schizophrenia provides insight into how biophysical mechanisms can impact cognitive function. In addition, the study of dynamics that underlie auditory entrainment in schizophrenia may contribute to the understanding of how gamma and beta rhythms impact cognition in general.
965	symbolic	2004	Deco, G; Rolls, ET; Horwitz, B	"What'' and "where'' in visual working memory: A computational neurodynamical perspective for integrating fMRI and single-neuron data	JOURNAL OF COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE	Single-neuron recordings, functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI) data, and the effects of lesions indicate that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is involved in some types of working memory and related cognitive processes. Based on these data, two different models of the topographical and functional organization of the PFC have been proposed: organization-by-stimulus-domain, and organization-by-process. In this article, we utilize an integrate-and-fire network to model both single-neuron and fMRI data on short-term memory in order to understand data obtained in topologically different parts of the PFC during working memory tasks. We explicitly model the mechanisms that underlie working-memory-related activity during the execution of delay tasks that have a "what''-then-"where'' design ( with both object and spatial delayed responses within the same trial). The model contains different populations of neurons ( as found experimentally) in attractor networks that respond in the delay period to the stimulus object, the stimulus position, and to combinations of both object and position information. The pools are arranged hierarchically and have global inhibition through inhibitory interneurons to implement competition. It is shown that a biasing attentional input to define the current relevant information ( object or location) enables the system to select the correct neuronal populations during the delay period in what is a biased competition model of attention. The processes occurring at the AMPA and NMDA synapses are dynamically modeled in the integrate-and-fire implementation to produce realistic spiking dynamics. It is shown that the fMRI data characteristic of the dorsal PFC and linked to spatial processing and manipulation of items can be reproduced in the model by a high level of inhibition, whereas the fMRI data characteristic of the ventral PFC and linked to object processing can be produced by a lower level of inhibition, even though the network is itself topographically homogeneous with no spatial topology of the neurons. This article, thus, not only presents a model for how spatial versus object short-term memory could be implemented in the PFC, but also shows that the fMRI BOLD signal measured during such tasks from different parts of the PFC could reflect a higher level of inhibition dorsally, without this dorsal region necessarily being primarily spatial and the ventral region object-related.
966	symbolic	2008	Guye, M; Bartolomei, F; Ranjeva, JP	Imaging structural and functional connectivity: towards a unified definition of human brain organization?	CURRENT OPINION IN NEUROLOGY	Purpose of review Diffusion tractography and functional/effective connectivity MRI provide a better understanding of the structural and functional human brain connectivity. This review will underline the major recent methodological developments and their exceptional respective contributions to physiological and pathophysiological studies in vivo. We will also emphasize the benefits provided by computational models of complex networks such as graph theory. Recent findings Imaging structural and functional brain connectivity has revealed the complex brain organization into large-scale networks. Such an organization not only permits the complex information segregation and integration during high cognitive processes but also determines the clinical consequences of alterations encountered in development, ageing, or neurological diseases. Recently, it has also been demonstrated that human brain networks shared topological properties with the so-called 'small-world' mathematical model, allowing a maximal efficiency with a minimal energy and wiring cost. Summary Separately, magnetic resonance tractography and functional MRI connectivity have both brought new insights into brain organization and the impact of injuries. The small-world topology of structural and functional human brain networks offers a common framework to merge structural and functional imaging as well as dynamical data from electrophysiology that might allow a comprehensive definition of the brain organization and plasticity.
967	symbolic	2008	Grandjean, D; Scherer, KR	Unpacking the cognitive architecture of emotion processes	EMOTION	The results of 2 electroencephalographic studies confirm Component Process Model (CPM) predictions that different appraisal checks have specific brain state correlates, occur rapidly in a brief time window after stimulation, and produce results that occur in sequential rather than parallel fashion. The data are compatible with the assumption that early checks (novelty and intrinsic pleasantness) occur in an automatic, unconscious mode of processing, whereas later checks, specifically goal conduciveness, require more extensive, effortful, and controlled processing. Overall, this work, combined with growing evidence for the CPM's response patterning predictions concerning autonomic physiological signatures, facial muscle movements, and vocalization changes, suggests that this model provides an appropriate basis for the unpacking of the cognitive architecture of emotion and its computational modeling.
